Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09086 B 6 The Veiled Society TSR"
See other formats
9086 


Special Cut-out Section for Adventure Play 


Basic Game Adventure 


The Veiled Society 


by David Cook 


Specularum. Three warring factions, one murder. The Torenescru, Radu, or Vorloi 
— who is responsible? An adventure for character levels 1-3. 


DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, D&D, and PRODUCTS OF YOUR IMAGINATION are trademarks owned by TSR. 
Inc. 






















Duke s 
Park 


Duke’s Stronghold 


Duke’s Pier 


• 

Tower 

u 

Market 


Contour Line 

(30' height) 

— 

Wall 

F 

Streets 

- 

Pier 


Gate 


* 1984 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved 






















\ 

i 


To find the distance moved, 
measure the straight line between the two points 
with the city scale ruler. 


Breakwater 









Basic Game Adventure 

The Veiled Society 

by David Cook * / 


CONTENTS 



Editor: Anne C. Gray 
Graphic Designer: Ruth Hoyer 
Cover Artist: Steve Chappell 
Interior Artist: Jim Roslof 
Paper Sculptor: Dennis Kauth 


• 1984 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in U.S.A. 

DUNGEONS & DRAGONS and D&D are registered trademarks 
owned by TSR Inc. 

Distributed to the book trade in the United States by Random 
House, Inc., and in Canada by Random House of Canada, Ltd. 
Distributed to the toy and hobby, trade by regional distributors. 
Distributed in the United Kingdom by TSR (UK) Ltd. 

This module is protected under the copyright laws of the United 
States of America. Any reproduction or other unauthorized use of 
the material or artwork contained herein is prohibited without the 
express written permission of TSR, Inc. 


TSR, Inc. 
POB 756 
Lake Geneva, 
WI 53147 


TSR (UK) Ltd. 
The Mill, Rathmore Road 
Cambridge CB14AD 
United Kingdom 



TSR, Inc. 


Preparing For The Adventure.2 

The Families ofSpecularum .3 

The Festival of Lucor.4 

Beneath The Floors .5 

The Investigation.7 

Riot.8 

Employment.10 

Further investigation .11 

The Chase.12 

The Chambers of The Veiled Ones.13 

After The Adventure.14 

New Monster.16 

Pre-Rolled Characters .16 


LIST OF MAPS 

Map 1 Specularum.2 

Map 2 The Festival of L u c o r.4 

Map 3 Under the Floors.6 

Map 4 Riot. 9 

Map 5 Ambush.11 

Map 6 The Chase and The Chambers of the Veiled Ones.15 


PREFACE 


Dawn's light reached through the window to 
shine on the man who sat brooding in the 
chair. Cartha Radu, brother to Anton Radu 
(the leader of the Veiled Society), was think 
ing. "Today is the day," he said to himself. 
"Today is the day to bring my plan into 
action," Cartha smiled. 

Below his tower window, the cityfolk 
slowly awoke. Today was the Festival of 
Lucor. The goodwives flung open their shut 
ters to the morning. Fishmongers and hawk 
ers heartened their cries. Actors and jugglers 


filled the streets, up from their beds of straw 
in the stables. 

On a dusty road a few miles outside the 
city, a small group roused itself. Some 
stretched their cramped bones, pained by a 
night on the damp grass. Others polished 
their swords and armor. With little ado, they 
packed their small camp and set out on the 
road once more. The excitement tingled 
among them, for today they would reach the 
city of Specularum — the home of their new 
fortunes! 


An Adventure for Character Levels 1-3 


ISBN 0-88038-085-3 


9086 



























PREPARING FOR THE ADVENTURE 


The Veiled Society is an adventure that takes 
place in the city of Specularum. Player char 
acters become involved in the power strug 
gles of the city. 

The "Veiled Society" includes paper 
sculpture buildings which will introduce a 
three-dimensional element into your cam 
paign. Cut out and build the paper sculptures 
found in the center of this book. Your players 
' may then see what the city looks like and 
where events occur. 

Before playing the first encounter, read this 
introduction and the encounter carefully. It is 
not necessary for you to read the entire mod 
ule before you play. The adventure will last 
many nights; read only those parts you will 
play in one session. 

Specularum 

The setting for this adventure is the City of 
Specularum (shown on the inset map). 

Specularum, the capital of the Grand 
Duchy of Karameikos, is the most important 
city in the area. Specularum and the Duchy 
are ruled by Duke Stefan Karameikos the 
Third. Specularum is the Duke's home, and 
the trading center of his dukedom. About 
5,000 people live in or very near the city. 
They are farmers, craftsmen, sailors, and 
traders. 

The city is accessed by a port. The port is 


protected on the seaward side by two long 
breakwaters. A large river east of the city 
allows ships to carry cargos inland to other 
towns of the dukedom. 

The Duke has protected his city from 
attack by erecting a wall around it. The wall 
is dotted with 24 towers. His castle is located 
on a craggy hill that looms over the harbor 
entrance. In the city, the Duke keeps 500 sol 
diers ready for any emergency. The Duke 
also has an elite troop, the Elvenguard, who 
go on special missions and sometimes act as 
his bodyguard. The entire Elvenguard often 
patrols the forest lands to the north. 

Just to the south of the city is the private 
estate of the Duke, managed by a loyal 
cousin. This land is mostly well-tended 
woods and gardens. It is surrounded by a low 
(15') wall. The Duke uses the estate as a sum 
mer palace and hunting preserve. Anyone 
found on the grounds is treated as a poacher. 

Poor workers and petty thieves live just 
outside the city walls. They work outlying 
farms and the Estate of Marilenev, a holding 
that surrounds the city. 

There is a street map of the city on the 
inside cover. This map shows only a few spe 
cific buildings. Use this map when the char 
acters move around the city. Since the streets 
are narrow, muddy, and crowded, characters 
move at the normal dungeon rate. The 


encounters are keyed to specific streets. As 
the adventure progresses, you may want to 
note information on the map — the location 
of an inn or the name of an armorer. The city 
has all standard services that the characters 
need; place the service businesses wherever 
you wish. 

The city is a crowded, noisy, unsanitary 
place. It is like the medieval cities of Ger 
many and Italy. Reading about these cities 
will provide information useful in describing 
Specularum. 

The streets are very narrow, twisting, and 
dark. There is no sewage system, except for 
trenches in the centers of streets. Pigs, chick 
ens, geese, and goats are not uncommon in 
the poorer sections of the city. 

Most buildings stand one or two stories. 
They are made of dried clay brick or mud and 
wattle, constructed on a wooden frame. A 
few buildings are made of stone or fired 
brick. Most businesses are on the ground 
floor, the owner living upstairs. 

Water is drawn from public wells, or from 
the river when the tide is flowing out. 

Crime and gangs are not uncommon. The 
gangs meet near the city walls and in the 
squalid sections late at night. 

Running a City Adventure 

Most of your adventures have occurred in 
dungeons. This adventure is much different 
— the action takes place in a city. Players will 
often surprise you with their decisions and 
actions. As they become involved in the 
events of this adventure, their characters will 
go places and do things that are not explained 
here. 

Allow the characters to visit places not 
shown on the maps. Have the player write 
down the name of the place, its location, and 
any important facts about it. If the character 
returns to this place, have the player remind 
you about the important details. This makes 
your job easier and encourages the players to 
pay attention and remember details. 

Characters will also deal with NPCs that 
are not detailed in the adventure. Do not 
panic! Have fun with your duties as DM — 
take the role of the NPC and play it like an 
actor. Give these people character and emo 
tions. Give the players reason for remember 
ing NPCs. Again, if the NPC is important, 
have the player note facts about him — where 
he can be found, what he is like, and what he 
knows. 

The Paper Sculpture 

In the center of this module you will find sev 
eral pages of drawings and diagrams to 
assemble and use during play. These sculp 
tures are buildings and other features of the 
city that form scenery for the encounters. 

You can continue to use these sculptures in 
other adventures of your own creation. Once 
you are done with play, simply store them 


MAPI 


SPECULARUM 



Specularum 


Woods 


Fields 


1 hex =’/ 2 mile 


2 





















THE FAMILIES OF SPECULARUM 


carefully in a box until you need them again. 

To build the sculptures you need scissors, a 
ruler, glue, and colored markers or pencils. 
The instructions for assembling the paper 
sculptures are on page 10. Read these 
instructions carefully before doing anything 
with the sculptures! 

On the fold-in panel of the back cover are 
several characters to cut out and use during 
play. Many of the ADVANCED DUN 
GEONS & DRAGONS tm Metal Miniatures 
are also suitable for use in this adventure. 

Encounters 

This adventure is divided into a series of sep 
arate encounters. All encounters, when 
linked together and played in order, make a 
complete adventure. The encounters are 
unlike many other D&D* adventures. In 
these encounters, it is likely that the players 
will not always act as a group. Some of the 
characters may side with one family, while 
others may be drawn to another. If this hap 
pens, characters may find themselves in con 



Three families are engaged in the 
struggle for power in Specularum. 
Each faction is identified by that 
family’s name. 

Radu 

At a still-spritely 63 years, Anton Radu con 
trols his family and organization with an 
iron, but hidden hand. He is assisted by his 
brother Cartha, his own sons Zweis and 
Antonito, and their sons Theodosius, Emil, 
and Pieter. 

They are also the leaders of the secret 
Veiled Society, which uses terror and crime 
against all enemies. Only some members of 
the society know them as its leaders. 

The Radu family has many contacts in the 
business and market areas of the city. Their 
strong control over the waterfront and wall 
districts of Specularum greatly influences the 
shipbuilding and import/export businesses. 
The Radu are attempting to gain control of 
the money-lending institutions and busi 
nesses of the city so they may dictate terms to 
the Duke. 


flict with each other. This is allowable; how 
ever, do not force the player characters into 
situations where they must kill each other. 
Allow them to escape the situation, but do not 
make it easy for them. 

Some encounters take place on the streets 
of the city. Maps provided in the adventure 
show how to place the paper sculpture build 
ings to form the scene. This set-up serves as a 
3-dimensional map for the adventure. 

Random Encounters 

There are no random encounters in this 
adventure. If the characters need to find a 
fairly common person (a street urchin, beg 
gar, merchant, etc.), they will not have much 
trouble. If they want to find an unusual type 
of person (a cleric, fighter, magic-user, noble, 
etc.), they must go to a place where that per 
son can be found (a temple, for example) or 
spend time and money visiting inns, markets, 
and taverns asking questions. If the charac 
ters want to find or speak to a particularly 
powerful or important person, their chances 



Torenescu 


Once a powerful faction controlling the 
everyday business of the city, the Torenescu 
Family has been weakened by the death of its 
leader, Christoph Torenescu. It is currently 
headed by his son Aleksandar, a youth of 26. 
Because of Aleksandar's young age and inter 
nal squabbling (especially between Aleksan 
dar and his uncle, Boris), the Torenescu 
family has lost power and followers. 

The family wants to return to its former 
glory. The Torenescu still have a great deal of 
political influence and discreet control on 
"The Hill," the noble district of town. Others 
siding with Torenescu include Lady Magda, 
Yaros (one of the Dukes's Privy Councillors), 
and "Lord" Dimitros (the self-styled prince 
of beggars). 

Vorloi 

Considered by the other factions to be an 
upstart, the Vorloi family has refused to fit 
the political mold. The faction is openly con 


are almost nonexistent unless they have 
important information or reason. 

The city has several churches, most for 
Lawful clerics. There are a few Neutral 
churches, but not many people attend. There 
are even Chaotic churches; these are very 
secret and do not advertise their existence in 
any way. If the characters need healing or 
similar help, they may obtain it if their cleric 
goes to his church. Of course, the player 
characters are required to make some type of 
offering (anything from flowers to magic 
items) and may be required to do some serv 
ice for the church. 

NOTE: NPCs listed as Normal Humans 
have a -1 chance to hit and a -1 on saving 
throws. They save as a 1st level Fighter. 

Characters are healed 1 hit point per day of 
rest. Rest means no fighting, magic using, or 
more travel than within an inn (upstairs, 
downstairs, etc.). 



trolled by Baron Vorloi. Drawing on his 
resources as a successful merchant prince, 
Baron Vorloi maintains a fleet of merchant 
ships in defiance of the Radu family. He 
resists all their attempts to control his busi 
ness (or the businesses of those who side with 
him). The Torenescu are no more pleased 
with the Vorloi, since the Baron refuses to 
side with them simply because the Torenescu 
represent nobility. 

Vorloi prefers that he and those who side 
with him be left alone. He has been able to 
maintain privacy through his influence in the 
military circles around the Duke. He hopes to 
gain more power and wring important trade 
concessions from the Duke. To reach this 
goal, he tries to prevent open strife and 
silence any bad news that might reach the 
Duke. Preventing any problems keeps other 
families from gaining favor from the Duke. 

Other members of the the Vorloi faction 
include the Baron’s daughter Marianna, 
Mikel (the Commander of the Guard Phor- 
sis), and Admiral Hyraskos. He also has a 
son, Grygori. Unfortunately, the boy is sim 
ple-minded and foolish, much to his father's 
disgust. 


3 












THE FESTIVAL OF LUCOR 


Anton Radu leaned forward, resting his bony 
arms on the table. He looked carefully at the 
others — Zweis, Antonito, and Cartha — 
trying to guess their hidden doubts. "It is 
true that Lady Magda will be in the festival?" 

"Yes, father," Zweis quickly said. "She is 
to lead the Parade of Maidens from the cas 
tle. " 

"The members have been informed. All 
will be ready," Cartha softly rumbled. 

"And our friends, Antonito, do they sus 
pect?" 

"My spies report nothing, Father. No one 
suspects." Antonito quickly dropped his gaze 
from his father's eyes. 

"Very good. Then at the Festival ofLucor, 
we will proceed." 


Entering Specularum 

The diagram to the left shows how to place 
the fold-up buildings for this encounter. Place 
all but the character pieces as shown. 

1 MAP 2 I 


THE 

FESTIVAL OF LUCOR 



Gate and wall 


This encounter will acquaint the players with 
the city and how things are done here. It also 
encourages the players to join different sides 
of the power struggle. Allow the players to 
ask questions and learn about their surround 
ings as they play. Be ready to create answers 
to common questions: Is there an inn 
nearby? How much does it it cost? What 
time of day is it? 

Into the City 

The player characters enter the city for the 
first time. The players should place their fig 
ures outside the city gate. 


The gate is open. A few soldiers with 
spears lounge near the entrance. They 
wear tabards of red and blue with a device 
of a ship on the front. Beyond the gate is a 
narrow muddy street. It is choked with 
people. Most dress in their best clothes 
and many wear brightly-colored outfits. 
Jugglers and fire-eaters are scattered 
throughout the crowd. The noise from 
whistles, drums, singing, and happy chat 
ter make normal talk difficult. 

"Halt! Do you wish to enter Specu 
larum?" shouts a guard inside the gate. 
"The tax is 8 silver pieces, each of you. All 
but daggers must be bound with cloth. 
Unbound weapons are fined. Murder by 
unbound weapon is punished by confisca- 
, tion of property, or death for the landless. 
Interference with the Duke's men gets you 
prison. Treasonous activity is especially 
nice — it gets you one day of slow torture 
and then we draw and quarter you. So 
enjoy yourselves." 


The guard appears quite bored. He tries to 
watch the festival out of the comer of his eye 
as the characters talk to him. He recites his 
speech from memory, becoming interested 
only when he begins talking about the pun 
ishments doled out for crimes. 

The guard collects the tax from the player 
characters (3 sp of the 8 goes into his pocket). 
He checks all weapons to see that they are 
secured. He lashes swords with thongs and 
wraps spears and the like with rags. It will 
take characters one round to remove the 
bindings from their weapons. After binding 
the weapons, the guard forgets about the 
characters and turns his attention back to the 
festival. The guard has lived here all of his life 
and can answer most questions asked about 
the city and what is going on. 


Beyond the gate swirls a crowd of people. 
Mud churned up by stumbling dancers 
cakes on the crowd's boots. People jostle 
each other, straining for a look at acro 
bats, knife-throwers, dancing bears, and 
minstrels. The smells of sewage, grilled 
meats, breads, sweat, and wine mingle in 
a strange, but inoffensive odor. 


Suddenly the crowd sways to the sides 
of the street. The music fades and changes 
to bells and chanting. Statues carried by 
several men seem to float above the heads 
of the crowd. A sedan chair, borne on the 
shoulders of clerics, follows. 

"The procession is coming!" shouts a 
young boy. 


Advancing toward the gate is the Procession 
of Lucor. The procession is a religious cele 
bration honoring a legendary local cleric 
named Lucor. It winds through the streets of 
the city to the harbor, where the statue of 
Lucor is floated out to sea. Each year a 
woman of notable rank and importance leads 
the procession. This year Lady Magda, a 
member of the Torenescu faction, has this 
honor. 

The festival is of great importance. This 
fact well suits the Radu — if the festival has 
problems, problems that look like they were 
caused by the Torenescu supporters, the 
Torenescu would be disgraced. 


The procession stops. Something is hap 
pening at its front. Three men are argu 
ing. A general hush falls over the crowd as 
everyone moves back from the procession. 
Two men, one small, plump, and pock 
marked and the other tall and lean, are 
arguing with the lead bearer of the sedan 
chair. 

Angrily, the small, plump man says to 
the lead bearer, "Bald-headed fool, do 
you Torenescu think you own the street? 
There's space for all of us, without your 
ape-like behavior!" 

The lead bearer contemptuously waves 
a rod in the small man's face. "Out of the 
way of the Procession ofLucor, Radu rub 
ble!" 

The tall, lean man, spitting on the 
statue of Lucor says, "That old fool? You 
make me laugh!" 

The lead bearer strikes the tall man, 
knocking him into the filth. The smaller 
man tenses, ready to lunge. 


If the player characters act, they can prevent 
violence. If they favor the two men, the Radu 
seek their following. If they side with the 
bearer, they are sought by Torenescu sup 
porters. Stories of the incident circulate the 
city. If the characters continue to watch with 
out becoming involved, two men in green liv 
ery break up the argument and pacify both 
sides. These men are Vorloi servants. 

After this scene, the characters can learn 
more about the families by asking any of the 
people there. Some will reply neutrally, while 
others fiercely support one faction or the 
other. Once the incident is over, the proces 
sion moves on. 


4 









BENEATH THE FLOORS 


Finding a Room 

When the characters decide to get rooms 
(remind them by asking where they intend to 
sleep), they find all inns very crowded. Wher 
ever they ask. only one room is available, a 
tiny thing that cannot hold more than 3 peo 
ple. If they want it, they may have the room 
for 1 gold piece per person. Point out that 
other characters might be able to get a room 
at the inn across the street. There arc rooms 
for everyone, but it means that several char 
acters must sleep at another inn. If the char 
acters refuse to take any rooms, they must 
spend the night sleeping in the mud of the 
streets. 

When the characters pay for their rooms, 
tell one of the characters that some of his 
money is missing. He has been pickpocketed. 
Not much should be missing, only enough to 
remind the characters to be careful. 

During the evening, one of the following 
events will happen to each player character or 
group of characters. If possible, do not have 
the same event happen to all the characters. 
The first event should be used for fighter and 
strong-looking characters, the second for 
thieves or a character standing outside the 
inn. 

First Event 

Read the following to strong-looking charac 
ters as they relax inside an inn. 

The citizens have finally slowed their cele 
bration of the festival, although it has 
taken much time, food, and strong drink. 
From nearby in this smoky common room 
comes a loud, tipsy voice. 

A scarred man points. "Hey you there! 
Want some work? Here, sit and drink. I 
need strong bodies. Theosius is my name. 
You look brave. Do you want to earn 
money?" 


Theosius explains that he is looking for trust 
worthy people to perform occasional duties 
for him. None of the missions involve doing 
anything illegal, but there may be danger 
involved. He will press very hard to get the 
player characters to seal the bargain. If they 
do, as a sign of good faith, Theosius gives 
each player character who agrees 3 gp. He 
will get in contact with them when they are 
needed. (Theosius will attempt to contact the 
players in the "EMPLOYMENT" section.) 

Theosius works for the Torenescu and so 
do any player characters working for him. If 
the player characters ask about him, they 
learn that Theosius is a respected wood sculp 
tor and craftsman in the city. It is known that 


he does a great deal of work for the nobles of 
the city, and it is rumored he has a small 
hoard of money. 

Second Event 

Read the following to a thief or a character 
standing just outside the inn. 

Outside the inn, a man walks by. He 
lurches drunkenly along. He smiles and 
nods as he passes. Suddenly, three hooded 
men step out of the shadows and the 
drunken man turns around. None of the 
men carry weapons openly. 

"So, new to town, eh?" asks the 
drunken man, who now appears quite 
sober. "You look like you need some work. 
Now, we have some things that need to be 
done and you look fairly smart. I'm sure 
you would want to help us. You staying 
here?" he asks, pointing to the inn. "Be a 
real good idea if you didn't leave for a 
while. We'll see you tomorrow night. 
Here, catch," he says. He throws a small 
bag. 

With that, the men slip into the 
shadows and run away. The bag holds 20 
gold pieces. 


The men arc members of the Veiled Society 
of the Radu. If attacked, they immediately 
run. However, the Veiled Society will treat 
the player characters as enemies from then 
on. If the characters ask about these men, 
NPCs answer evasively. The people do not 
like talking about the hooded men. I! they ask 
the innkeeper, he explains that he has a quiet 
business and likes the idea of it staying quiet. 
He doesn't create trouble and no one creates 
trouble for him. 

If the characters attempt to go to the 
authorities, it does not help them. City offi 
cials will shuttle the player characters to dif 
ferent officials — the magistrate sends them 
to the warden, the warden to the constabu 
lary, the constabulary to the bailiff, the bailiff 
to the magistrate, etc. The PCs will not find 
help — not because of fear, but because of 
bureaucracy, protection, and bribes. None of 
the officials are evil. 

After meeting the members of the Veiled 
Society, the player characters are watched 
discreetly by the innkeepers, merchants, and 
members of the Society. If a player wishes to 
determine if the party is being watched, have 
him roll ld6 and add all wisdom bonuses. He 
notices someone watching if the result is 5 or 
higher. The player characters can attempt to 
lose anybody trailing them, hut will not know 
if they succeed. They will not succeed. 


BENEATH THE FLOORS 

Zweis nervously looked at the others around 
the table. Antonito casually studied his fi n - 
gernails. Anton, hunched beside it candle, 
flipped through papers. "Zweis looks a bit 
uncomfortable, " thought Cartha. "Good. " 

"So, it didn't work as you planned," 
Anton said, fixing a sharp eye on Zweis. "A 
feeble plan and it didn't work. What do we do 
now?" 

"Make a statement," Antonito said, grin 
ning. "A knife in the night would teach the 
Vorloi peace-makers a lot. The members are 
impatient. They want to act, no more little 
work." 

Anton looked at him calmly, "I then 
assume you would lead them? We must be 
cautious. There will be no more mistakes. 
Cartha, what do you say?" 

"We cannot act so long as the Vorloi are 
about. Use Antonito's demonstration to deal 
with them." 

"No, we cannot, " said Anton finally. "It is 
too soon. There is no more to say. Goodnight, 
see yourselves out. " Anton stood and held out 
a trembling arm to Zweis. The younger man 
took it and they both shuttled out of the room. 

"Well, what do you feel in your heart?" 
asked Cartha. "The merchant Fortunato is 
where I would start, Antonito. " 

Antonito looked to the closed door. "I 
agree. When shall it be done?" 


At the Inn 

If the characters gather at one inn the next 
morning, read the following. If the group 
does not gather in one place, read the follow 
ing to either group. 


It is morning at the inn. A cat stalks some 
thing in the corner of the room. The inn 
keeper's daughter sweeps last night's 
dinner off the floor. From the back comes 
the clicking of dishes and the splash of 
water. A traveller snores loudly in the cor 
ner. Suddenly, the door swings open and 
an elderly lady frantically looks about. 

"Please, some kind sir, come quick to 
help me!" she pleads, panic overcoming 
her. She looks about for anyone to answer 
her. "Oh save me! There are demons in 
my house, I know it! I hear them at night, 
talking to each other. They want to catch 
me. Please!" she says, falling to her knees. 

The innkeeper runs in, kneels beside 
the old woman, and tries to comfort her. 


5 








BENEATH THE FLOORS 


"Goodwife Thanato," he says, sounding 
concerned, "what are you doing? Sit 
down proper." He turns, saying, "Could 
anyone help this poor old woman? Could 
anyone look in her cellar to find the prob 
lem?" 


If the party does not ignore the hysterical 
woman, she clings to them, telling her story. 
Something, she swears, is in her root cellar. 
She can hear it moving about — sometimes 
during the day, but mostly at night. Things 
are moved and food is missing. Just minutes 
ago was the worst. This time she heard voices 
and they were calling to her. She begs for the 
party's help. Behind her, the innkeeper qui 
etly holds up a gold piece and points to it. 

If the party still refuses to help, the inn 
keeper leads one character aside. "I'll throw 
you into the street, heartless dogs, and spread 
your names as debtors to all the inns in the 
city, too, if you don't calm this old lady's 
nerves! Don't think my guild can't make you 
miserable." 

The old woman leads the characters to a 
house a few feet away from the inn. She 
shows them the entrance to her root cellar. It 
is a trapdoor at the back of the kitchen, beside 
the brick and plaster oven. She refuses to go 
any further. 

1. Under A Garden 


A large earthen cavern is covered with a 
pool of ankle-deep mud. The room is 
criss-crossed with supporting beams and 
planks cover the roof. Large blobs of mud 
seep down between the cracks. Across the 
chamber, three thin and naked men shovel 
by the light of a feeble lantern. Three ugly, 
armored creatures watch them work. 


If the characters enter the chamber, one of the 
workers drops his shovel and runs toward the 
characters. The hobgoblins shout foul curses 
at the characters and charge. 

Hobgoblins (3): AC 5; HD 1+1; hp 7 each; 
MV 9"; #AT 1; D 1-8; Save FI; M 8; AL 
LE; carry 5 sp each 

If the characters defeat the hobgoblins, the 
naked men rush forward and fall at the char 
acters' feet and thank them profusely. The 
men were captured almost a year ago and 
have been digging tunnels under the city ever 
since. The naked men do not fight, but do not 
leave the characters until the party goes to the 
surface again. 

2. Fortunato's Cellar 


A light wooden panel covers a dimly lit 
cellar. The air is dry and smells of meats. 
Cured hams and sausages hang from the 
beams. In the center of the cellar, two 
hooded men busily dig up the floor. A 
large bundle lies nearby. 



"Come on," says one man. "I think this 
is deep enough. Let's get it buried and 

go" 

"No," says the second man. "I want to 
make it deeper. Nobody can ever find this 
but us." 


If the men are not disturbed, they dig a little 
more and load the bundle into the hole. They 
fill the hole with dirt, move some items over 
the spot, and then leave the cellar. If the play 
ers reveal themselves, the two men attempt to 
flee. In the bundle is the body of a young 
woman, recently murdered. See "The Inves 
tigation," for information about the woman 
and the house above. 

The men advise the characters to release 
them, if captured. Otherwise, they say, mem 
bers of the Veiled Society will harm them. 
Lawful characters should not allow the men 
to be murdered. They must turn the murder 
ers in or suffer an alignment change to Cha 
otic. If a character is at 1st level when this 
happens, it takes that character 3 times as 
many Experience Points to reach 2nd level. 
Two men (3rd level thieves): AC 7; MV 
40'; HD 1; hp 8 7; #AT 1; D 1-8; Save T3; 
M 6,10 during questioning; AL C 

3. Kobold Exploration Party 


This dug-out cave is dimly lit by torches. 
From the cave comes the sounds of several 
creatures. In the middle of the room is a 
group of kobolds struggling to place a 
wooden support beam. One turns toward 
you and begins to jibber. The beam slips a 
few inches and a small hail of dirt falls 
over the room and the kobolds. 

The tunnel to the room collapses in bil 
lows of choking dust. One of the kobolds 
hisses in common. "Come help us, or we 
will all be trapped!" 


If the characters assist, the kobolds let go of 
the beam when the characters approach. A 
successful initiative roll allows the characters 
to grab the beam. If they are unable to grab 
the beam, the ceiling collapses, doing 1 hp of 
damage to each PC. The characters can free 
themselves from the rubble in one round. 
The kobolds attack while the characters can 
not fight back. 

The cave-in behind the characters can be 
dug clear in one turn. Near the beam are sev 
eral kobold-sized tools, a bag of spoiled food, 
and a small pouch containing five gp. 

Kobolds (10): AC 7; MV 6"; HD 1/2; hp 2 
each; #AT 1; D 1 -4; Save NM; M 6; AL LE 

4. Refuse Pit 


This small side passage reeks of foul odor. 
The walls are slimy and oozing. 

A sudden scraping noise is followed by 
a loud, wet plop. A wave of sulphurous 
fumes fills the passage. 


The characters find themselves knee-deep in 
rotting, runny garbage from an inn. An old 
cistern above the room has collapsed. There 
is now a hole in the ceiling where it has col 
lapsed. 


6 














THE INVESTIGATION 


5. The Good wife's Cellar 


At the bottom of the ladder is a dry dirt 
cellar. Bags are piled against the walls, 
and cobwebs fill the corners. A sack of 
dried apples is spilled across the floor. 

A squeaking and scratching noise 
comes from the southeast comer. 


If the party turns to look, they see a big rat 
run along the wall and scuttle out of sight. If 
the characters follow, they see a shadow move 
in the southwest corner of the root cellar. 
Careful investigation of the corner reveals a 
hidden entrance to a small passage. Charac 
ters taller than a halfling must stoop to use the 
passage. 


A clattering noise and whispery sounds fill 
the room, but there is no apparent source. 


If the characters listen carefully while moving 
about, they find it is loudest in the northwest 
comer. Careful examination reveals another 
small passage behind a sack of grain. Charac 
ters taller than a halfling must stoop to use the 
passage, also. 

6. The Unburied Dead 


This chamber was apparently once the 
cellar of a house. It is now choked with 
rubble, burned beams, and dirt. Several 
paths can be carefully picked across the 
room. 

A chuckling sound continually echoes 
throughout the room. A glowing light, 
taking the vague form of a person, floats 
about the room. It passes through beams. 
The sound seems to come from it. The 
form passes through a wall and disappears 
from sight. 


If the characters search the rubble, they find 
pieces of bone, perhaps once a person. As 
soon as the bone is found, the glowing light 
and laughter comes again. Whether the char 
acters strike at the light or not, it does not 
harm them. Hidden under a loose beam, in a 
charred box, are 3 pieces of half-melted jew 
elry worth 200 gp each. 


A faint sliding sound follows a loud snap 
ping. 


The legs of three characters (determine ran 
domly) are grasped. Roll for surprise. The 
gripped characters are thrown to the floor as 
three zombies burst up from the rubble-cov 
ered floor. 

Zombies (3): AC 8; MV 6"; HD 2; hp 5 
each; #AT 1; D 1-8; Save FI; M 12; AL N 

7. Turano's Cellar 


Along the south wall of this cellar is a large 
pile of dirt. Near the open tunnel mouth is 
a small wheelbarrow. It is loaded with 
shovels and picks. Wooden beams are 
piled neatly in the center of the room. In 
the southeast corner is a ladder leading to 
a trapdoor in the ceiling. 

There is a scraping of wood on wood. A 
ray of light shines into the room from a 
crack in the ceiling. Someone is opening 
the trapdoor. 


A hooded man comes down the ladder. He is 
not expecting anyone, but notices characters 
in plain sight. If he notices the characters, he 
flees. If not, he takes a shovel and goes up the 
tunnel to Room 2. He is a member of the 
Veiled Society. He knows the tunnels are 
being dug to enter the houses of their ene 
mies. See "The Investigation," for informa 
tion about the building above. 

Fighter (1) (2nd level): AC 5; MV 40'; HD 
2; hp 12; #AT 1; D 1-8; Save FI; M 8; AL 
C; carries 20 gp 



INVESTIGATION 


If the characters discover the murdered 
woman and report it to the authorities, they 
are held for questioning. The characters have 
no difficulty proving their innocence if they 
agree to an examination by a clerical tribu 
nal. If the characters do not agree, they are 
considered guilty and hanged in a week. 

If the murder is not reported, a servant of 
the Vorloi house discovers it the same day. He 
finds the tunnel leading to the widow's base 
ment. The widow tells about having the char 
acters investigate and their descriptions are 
circulated. If the characters do nothing spe 
cial, they are arrested immediately. They can 
prove their innocence as explained above. If 
the characters hide, they are contacted by 
members of the Veiled Society. They offer 
food, shelter, and safety in return for service. 

The murdered woman is Lucia Vorloi, a 
niece of Baron Vorloi. It is said she spurned 
the advances of Stephanos Torenescu, rudely 
insulting him for his pompous and conceited 
behavior. Examining the body shows the 
woman was strangled from behind, possibly 
by a rope or thick cord. She has no other inju 
ries on her body. Under her fingernails are a 
few strands of red hair. Lucia Vorloi is blond. 
Stephanos has light brown hair. On her right 
cheek and palm is dried blood. 


After proving their innocence, the charac 
ters are ordered to accompany a tribune (a 
high level fighter) to the scene of the crime. 
With them are two important clerics of the 
city. They start by going to the Vorloi House. 

Vorloi House 

A well-to-do merchant, Fortunate Vorloi, 
and his daughter Lucia live here. Fortunato 
has been at sea for several weeks now. The 
house is empty. Inside there are signs of vio 
lence — a dagger and bloodstains on the 
floor, broken dishes and furniture, and torn 
clothing. 

Several drops of a brownish liquid are scat 
tered amongst the bloodstains. If the liquid is 
tasted, it proves to be a particularly strong 
type of wine. Several items of value (jewelry, 
money, etc.) are obviously missing. None of 
it is traceable. 

If the characters carefully examine the 
bloodstains, they find a small section where 
the stain seems to have been rubbed away. 
Something may have been written there. It is 
hard to tell but the letters could be BAD. . ., 
BAO. . ., RAD. . ., RAO. . . The mes 
sage is obviously incomplete. 

The dagger is crusted with dried blood. A 
few strands of red hair are dried in the blood. 


7 








RIOT 


Near the cellar entrance is a signet ring of the 
Torenescu family. A short length of blood 
stained hemp rope lies near the trapdoor. 
Careful examination by a character looking 
for clues reveals small bits of pitch stuck to the 
rungs of the ladder. 

Turano’s Guest House 

This house is deserted, although someone 
was living here recently. It is a small building 
at the rear of a larger house owned by 
Turano, a butcher. He rented the house to a 
man named Skevlos, a black-haired, portly 
young man who was a [ravelling blacksmith. 
Skevlos left the house the day before. 

The small house has no furnishing other 
than an old bed, a desk, and one chair. 
Muddy tracks on the floor lead to a trapdoor 
On the desk is a near-empty bottle containing 
a thick brownish, sweet, strong wine. There 
is no label on the bottle, but near the top is the 
remains of a wax seal. This seal still clearly 
bears the imprint of the Trouscan Estates. 
Anyone in the city can identify the seal, even 
though the Trouscan Estate is not local. All 
wines from there are sold to a few waterfront 
inns. In the desk is a black leather hood. 
Strands of red hair can be found inside the 
hood. 

The trap door leads to a cellar. Digging 
implements, beams, and piles of dirt cover 
the cellar floor. The tunnel entrance is col 
lapsed but the secret entrance is not. In one 
corner of the room is a mound of bloody ban 
dages. Slipped down between the beams is a 
roll of parchment, a map of this area of the 
city. Several buildings have crosses marked 
on them. Marked are this house. Fortunato's 
house, the Rattlebone Inn, Zweis Radu's 
house, and Baron Vorloi's guest house. A 
careful search of these places shows that no 
tunnels exist other than those already found 
by the PCs. 

The Actual Events 

Lucia Fortunate) was alone in her father's 
house. Late at night, two members of the 
Veiled Society, acting under Antonito's 
orders, entered the house through the cellar 
to kill Lucia. They made noise moving about 
the first floor, awakening Lucia. She came 
down to investigate and discovered the men. 
Seeing them, she attempted to escape and get 
help. The men caught her. She slashed one 
with a dagger she carried. While she was 
fighting him, the other got behind her and 
strangled her with the rope. The two men fled 
in panic, leaving her lifeless body on the floor. 
Antonito, on hearing their report, ordered 
them to return to the house and dispose of the 
body. 

The two men were recruited from the 
wharf area of the city. One man was a ship 
builder and left faint traces of pitch on the 
ladder. The red hairs were from the man 
Lucia slashed. 


RIOT 

Cartha looked hard at Antonito, who sat 
smiling confidently. "I'll be all right, " Cartha 
thought, "so long as that worthless rat of a 
nephew keeps his mouth shut. The little fool 
doesn't even realize the trouble he's in. I do 
not need to concern myself with Zweis for 
now." 

Cartha watched as Anton leaned back in 
his chair. "My god," thought Cartha, "he's 
smiling. Does he approve of Antonito? 
What's he up to? Well, 1 best find out." Car 
tha glared at Anton and finally said, "So 
brother, you called us here. Please explain. 
I'm very busy." 

"I will get to you in due time, Cartha," 
Anton said pleasantly. "First, I would like to 
talk about Antonito." 

"Antonito is still smiling," thought Car 
tha. "What is he up to ? " 

At the mention of his name, Antonito's 
smile wavered a little. "Ah, now he's wor 
ried, " Cartha decided. "Good. Maybe 
brother dear will crush him. That would suit 
me well." 

"Antonito, there was a killing a tew nights 
ago. Did you know that?" Anton leaned for 
ward. 

"Yes, father, I heard." 

"Ah, you heard. Indeed, I'm sure you did. 
Arc you such a fool to think that I would not 
know! Only because you are my son do you 
sit here! Only because you are my son will 
you walk out of here today! You may have 
ruined our plans. Now we must fix your 


mess. 

Anton turned to Cartha. "What about 
you?"' Cartha flinched, thinking he was 
doomed. "Can you correct my headstrong 
son's error?" 

"He doesn't suspect me. Maybe I can con 
vince him to do what I want," Cartha 
thought. 

"Anton, there may be those who will talk," 
said Cartha. "They must be found and dealt 
with. Then there are others, asking ques 
tions. The authorities we can satisfy, but oth 
ers may dig too deeply. This must be 
prevented. And attention must be diverted 
from the Society. Let us do what we can to stir 
up trouble for the Torenescu. " 

Anton leaned back, the tension slowly 
leaving his face. "Good," thought Cartha, 
"he's thinking about it. Go with it, Anton, do 
what I want you to. " He forced a small smile. 
"Now with Zweis and Antonito in shame, 
you will depend more and more on me," he 
said to himself. 

"Yes, Cartha. " agreed Anton. "Antonito, 
try to redeem yourself. Find the killers and 
deal with them. Zweis, the public must be 
made aware of the threat the Torenescu poses 
to their safety. Spread the word to them. Car 
tha, you will deal with those who ask too 
many questions. I want no more inquisitive 
noses." Anton stood and padded slowly out of 
the room. 

Across the table Antonito glared at Cartha, 
his eyes showing his hate. 


The Mood in the Streets 


If the characters proceed with their investiga 
tion, they notice a growing mood in the city 
— hot heads speak out against the actions of 
the Torenescu family. They are quick to 
blame the Torenescu for the murder of Lucia 
Vorloi. Some even accuse the Torenescu of 
being (he masterminds behind the Veiled 
Society. 

These hotheads become bolder as time 
passes. They start by talking among friends 
in inns and taverns, and proceed to gather 
small groups of people. Their voices become 
louder and stronger as more people listen to 
them. 

By the end of the day. the speakers become 
quite bold. Not only do they connect the 
Torenescu with the murder, they also play on 
the common folk's dislike of the nobility, 
which the Torenescu represent. 

As the characters cross a marketplace to 
return to their inns sometime before night 
fall, read the following: 


It is late in the afternoon. Most of the 
stalls have closed for the day, but many 
people are still in the market. An orator 


stands on the edge of the central fountain. 
The crowd gathers around him. 

The orator shouts, "And I tell you, 
these Torenescu are dangerous. Do they 
care for you? Do they care for the safety of 
common workers? Who declares the 
taxes? Who steals food from your chil 
dren's mouths to fatten themselves in lux 
ury?" 

The crowd is getting restless. Several 
men shout cries of agreement. Men raise 
their fists and their voices grow in num 
ber. The speaker attracts more and more 
people — some merely curious and others 
in agreement with him. 

The clatter of horse hooves makes the 
crowd turn. 

Ringing the outer edges of the market 
place are 30 of the Duke's horsemen. The 
orator and the crowd grow silent. Three 
riders slowly bring their mounts toward 
the renter of the crowd. Suddenly, a 
hoarse cry erupts from the crowd and 
something flashes through the air. The 
lead rider falls, struck by a rock. 


8 






RIOT 


Allow the player characters to move to the 
edge of the crowd, if they wish. They are not 
allowed to cross the line of horsemen. After 
the rider falls, there is total silence for a sec 
ond. Then the crowd surges at the riders. 
The riders respond by drawing swords and 
charging. As soon as they charge, their line is 
broken and the characters can attempt to 
escape. 

The commoners take up poles, rocks, rot 
ten fruit, and daggers. A vicious riot breaks 
out. The horsemen hit the crowd, blindly 
slashing with their sabers. The people 
respond, swinging sticks and hurling stones. 
Horses, dragged down by the weight of cling 
ing peasants, fall with frightened screams. 
Women, children, and men run in panic from 
the charging riders. 

If a character attempts to escape without 
fighting there is a 30% chance a horseman 
attacks him. The character can continue to 
move and escape, even if hit. 

If the character stays to fight, two more 
horsemen arrive in the next two rounds to 
assist. If these horsemen are defeated, the 
characters and the crowd are not bothered by 
any other riders. After defeating the horse 
men, the characters are swept up by the com 
moners and hailed as heroes of the common 
people. The characters must think and speak 
quickly to avoid becoming the leaders of the 
rioters. 

Horsemen: AC 6; MV 40'; HD 1; hp 4; 

#AT 1; D 1-8; Save Normal Man; M 9; AL 

L 

The horses have 9 hp and move 80'. Six char 
acters working together can pull down one 
horse and rider. 


MAP 4 


RIOT 



Escape 

If the characters break free of the horsemen 
and the riot, they can run down any street 
they wish. All public buildings (inns, shops, 
etc.) on the market square are closed and 
shuttered. The characters see the orator run 
ning down a side street. No matter what 
street they go down, set out the paper sculp 
ture buildings according to the diagram 
below. 

If the characters do not follow the orator, they 
encounter a line of 15 soldiers with pullarms 
and an officer halfway down the street. The 
soldiers advance in an even line, turning back 
any who try to pass. The same thing happens 
on all streets leading to the market. 

A young woman lets the characters in if 
they pound on a door. She hides them until 
the soldiers pass. While they are hiding, the 
characters hear shouting, screams, the occa 
sional noises of fighting, and the harsh cries 
of orders. The air is stale and smoky. After 
several hours, Coelina (the young woman) 
tells the characters that all is clear. They can 
then move on the streets again without fear of 
soldiers. The area of the riot is very still. The 
dim glow of fires rises from that area. 

Soldiers: AC -6; MV 40'; HD 1; hp 4; #AT 

1; D 1-10; Save Normal Man; M 8; AL L 

The soldiers fight whoever tries to break 
through their line. 

If the characters follow the orator, he ducks 
into a small hovel halfway down the street. 
The door slams behind him. Ahead the char 
acters can see the 15 soldiers with pullarms 
advancing (statistics above). 

The door is barred, but any two characters 
can break it down. Inside is a bare room (no 
map required) with a trapdoor in the center 
of the floor. The trapdoor opens easily. It 
drops down 10' and becomes a passage run 
ning roughly northwest. Far down the pas 
sage, a bobbing glimmer of light disappears. 
The tunnel extends for 300 feet before ending 
in a ladder leading up. 

The ladder leads to a room similar to the 
other entrance. If the characters pursue 
quickly, they catch the orator in this room 
attempting to drag a large chest over the trap 
door. If the characters try to capture him, he 
resists, but if they wound him he immediately 
surrenders. Totally panicked, he tells the 
characters anything he knows, if they ask. 

He is a member of the Veiled Society. He 
was to stir up trouble for the Torenescu by 
making speeches against them. He does not 
know who leads the Veiled Society. The 
Veiled Society meets in an underground 
chamber. There is a secret entrance in the 
Blue Water Mead Hall near the waterfront. 
This is the only entrance he knows about. He 
is sure there are others. 

There are normally 20 members present at 
the meetings he attends. All members are 


hooded and robed with clothing provided 
shortly after entering. He provides the char 
acters with a rough map of the layout, but 
unknown to them it is incorrect. Use the 
Chambers section of the Map 5 to prepare a 
rough sketch for the players, but leave out 
some key details (secret doors, passages, 
etc.). He knows there is a meeting tomorrow 
night. 

Also, he knows the names of Lucia's mur 
derers — Akarios the Shipwright and Zacha- 
riah Boestes. If asked, he tells the characters 
to look at the Blue Water Mead Hall for 
them. 

Orator (2nd level thief): AC 9; MV 40'; 
HD 1; hp 6; #AT 1; D 1-4; Save T2; M 6; 
ALC 

He carries 200 gp, his pay for rabble-rousing. 

Leading the Riot 

If the characters stay with the rioters, the 
commoners make them the military leaders 
of the riot. In the initial fight, the thirty 
horsemen were defeated. The commoners 
loot the bodies. The characters may com 
mandeer the horses if they wish. 

Meanwhile, other commoners gather 
stones, throw bricks at nearby buildings, and 
collect wood for fires. If the characters 
attempt to impose order on the crowd, a large 
vicious-looking thug challenges them. Wav 
ing his saber, he demands a fight with one of 
the characters. The longer the characters let 
him talk, the more support he gets from the 
crowd. 

Thug (3rd level fighter): AC 7; MV 40'; 
HD 2; hp 14; #AT 1; D 1-8+2; Save F3; M 
12; AL C 

He does not fight fair, using any dirty trick in 
the book he can get away with. 

During the fight, the crowd starts several 
fires in the marketplace and breaks into and 
loots some of the buildings on the square. If 
the characters defeat the thug, they are able 
to organize the crowd somewhat. They have 
little time. 

Fifteen rounds after the characters defeat 
the horsemen, 60 armed soldiers with pull 
arms arrive at the square. They have orders 
to stop the revolt by capturing or killing those 
involved. The characters have 100 poorly 
armed rioters on their side. If anyone is cap 
tured (including the characters), they are 
treated as traitors — slow torture followed by 
drawing and quartering. There is no appeal. 

However, the characters do have a chance 
to fight their way out of the situation. If they 
decide to make an attack on the soldiers, do 
not try to fight the entire combat. Instead, 
use the system below: 

1. Have the characters describe how they 
want the commoners to attack. (Charge the 
men guarding this street; fifty men attack 


9 





EMPLOYMENT 


here while the rest protect the sides and rear, 
etc.) Have them write it down in the order 
that it will happen. 

2. Have the character with the highest Cha 
risma roll 1-3 and add or subtract his Cha 
risma adjustment. This is the number of 
commands followed by the people. 

3. Let the characters decide where they will 
be. In the front ranks, they are attacked by 
two soldiers each. If in the rear, they are not 
attacked, but the commoners do not fight as 
effectively. 

4. Have the players roll two dice for a morale 
check for the commoners. The morale of the 
commoners is 9. 

5. Roll two dice. If the characters fight in the 
front rank, add two; if not, subtract 1. If the 
characters made a plan and the commoners 
follow all of it, add two. If the commoners fol 
low some but not all of the plan, add one. If 
the characters did not make a plan, subtract 
3. If commoners fail their morale check, sub 
tract 2. 

If the modified die roll is 5 or greater, the 
commoners have won the fight. There are no 
surviving soldiers present and only 20 com 
moners remain. 

If the commoners lose the fight (a die roll of 
4 or lower), the characters can still escape by 
fighting. The characters must defeat 10 sol 
diers before an escape route is open and they 
may flee. However, vague descriptions of 
them are sent throughout the city by criers. 

Soldiers: AC 6; MV 12 M ; HD 1; hp 4; #AT 

1; D 1-10; Save Normal Man; M 9; AL L 

After the Riot 

If the characters decide to leave the market 
place after defeating the soldiers, they cam 
leave in the general confusion. If they want to 
continue as leaders, they must flee as quickly 
as possible. Each turn ten soldiers arrive. The 
characters can recruit five commoners each 
turn, up to a total of 1,000. No more than 400 
soldiers arrive. However, the player charac 
ters can never command more than 100 
rioters. The others run rampant, looting, 
burning buildings and causing much destruc 
tion. The soldiers stay organized and fight 
savagely. They protect the Duke's castle at all 
costs. The Duke also has access to higher- 
level magic. 

Describe the scene as general confusion — 
fireballs, screaming, buildings burning, etc. 
Allow the players to continue as long as they 
like, but make it clear that they will not win in 
the long run. Other rioters challenge their 
authority and the players will have little con 
trol. 

The Duke immediately begins gathering 
troops from the surrounding area. By the 
next day, he has 1,000 men ready to enter the 
city. Anyone still rioting or suspected of riot 
ing is killed. 


EMPLOYMENT 

As the second day wears on, the tensions of 
the riot slowly subside. The tensions are not 
gone, only hidden, and waiting for a new 
spark. The mood in the city that evening is 
grim. 

Read the following section to player char 
acters hired by Theosius (of the Torenescu 
faction) when they return to their inn. 


Back at the inn, the innkeeper calls out, 
"Excuse me, but a gentleman called for 
you while you were out. He gave me a 
message, let's see. Uh, you were to go to 
... It was to go someplace and get a 
package, that I know. The Senator Eipis- 
tlo's house, that's where you're to take it. 
Ah, from the Jade Sea, a boat down at the 
wharf. And there was a warning, too, gen 
tlemen! He said that there were those who 
would try to take what you carried." 

Characters contacted by the Veiled Society 
receive the following message as they are out 
on the streets. 


From somewhere along the street comes a 
whistling noise and a loud thunk. Quiver 
ing in the wall nearby is a dagger. A shad 
owy figure slips into the crowd and is 
gone. A note tied to the dagger reads: 

Be at Vinter's Lane tonight before the sec 
ond bell. Go to the wine shop on the comer. 
Be ready. Do not fail. The next message will' 
be more pointed. 

The following encounter is for the characters 

headed for the "Jade Sea." 


The "Jade Sea" is finally visible ahead. It 
is late. The sun has set and the remaining 
dusklight is filtering out of the sky. The sea 
wall and the city are behind. The deck 
hand, a wizened old man, does not look 
friendly. 

He snaps in a screechy voice, "What do 
you want? Who sent you here?" 

Whether the party answers him honestly or 
not, his mood changes and he becomes very 
helpful. 

The old man scampers off. In a few min 
utes he returns with another man. The 
deckhand grins and nods. 

"Here's your package, mateys! Hee- 
hee, have fun, y' lubbers!" 

"I am Simion Torenescu," says the 
other man. "I am a statesman. It is 
important that I reach the Senator's house 
in secrecy. Since you are new to town, you 
will not draw the attention his bodyguards 
would. Will you help?" 

Suddenly, a number of ragged-looking 
men approach the base of the gangplank. 
The men carry swords and clubs, but do 
not raise them. One man steps forward 
and kneels on one knee. 


In a slightly mocking tone he says, "Oh 
Lord Simion, our sovereign master Prince 
Dimitrios, Ruler of the Beggars, sends us 
as his solemn oath of homage to the 
Torenescu. Receive us into your service." 

At this, Simion laughs uproariously, 
clapping his hands and stamping his feet. 

"Well said, dog of a beggar," says 
Simion. "And so you shalljoin my body 
guard!" 


If the characters try to advise Simion against 
taking these men on, he does not listen to 
them. Statistics for these men follow "The 
Ambush" section. 

The party may recommend any route 
through the city they wish. Simion wishes to 
reach the Senator's house as quickly as possi 
ble but settles for a reasonable compromise. 
He has a map of the city. Allow the players to 
see the city map printed on the inside of the 
module screen. To cross the sea wall, the 
group must take one of three roads. There are 
Veiled Society spies on each road. 

Veiled Society Men 

When the characters contacted by the Veiled 
Society reach Vinter's Lane, read the follow 
ing encounter. 


Vinter's Lane is a dark and lonely place 
this late at night. The lane is narrow and 
foul, like most of the smaller streets of the 
city. Small tented booths and little shops 
line both sides. The air smells heavy of 
yeast and wine. Ahead, a lantern shines 
outside a small booth. It is the only place 
that is open. The banner along the side 
says, "Aristo, Wine Merchant." 

The only person in the booth is a fat, 
sweaty old man of about 60. Around him 
are bottles and jugs of wine. The air has a 
sour-sweet smell. 

"Gentlemen, you have chosen well to 
come to me," says the man in the booth. 
"I, Aristo, am the finest dealer of wines in 
the city! What would you . . ." He stops 
in a fit of coughing and hacking. 

Before he can continue, 10 men appear, 
five at each end of the street. They all wear 
black hoods. They stop 10' away from the 
booth. 


If the characters do nothing, one approaches. 


"Here," says the hooded man, holding 
something out. "Take these and put them 
on. You are armed? Then come with us 
quickly." 


The men wait for the characters to join them 
and then lead them through many twisting 
alleys to a dark street comer. Here a hooded 
man, possibly the same one, turns to the 
characters. 


10 





FURTHER INVESTIGATION 


"You are now one of us," says the man. 
"If they catch you, they kill you. If you 
betray us, we kill you. Act in our name 
but without our blessing, we kill you. 
Work hard for us and you will prosper. 
Once with us you cannot leave us." 

A boy runs up to the group and speaks 
to one of the men. At his word the group 
runs through the twisting alleys. The 
group arrives at a section of a street. They 
throw hoods over the street lamps. The 
leader of the group motions the men into 
three different positions. 


The Ambush 

Set up the paper sculpture buildings accord 
ing to the inset map below. The points 
marked by an "X" are the three points where 
the Veiled Society men are located. Allow the 
characters involved with the Veiled Society to 
select where they will place themselves. With 
them are five other members of the Veiled 
Society. 

AMBUSH MAPS 



Simion’s bodyguards enter here 
X - Ambushers 


Play this part of the encounter in two separate 
groups — one group of characters acting as 
bodyguards and the other group as Veiled 
Society men. Each group should not be 
allowed to hear what is said to the other or to 
know what its members are doing. If this is 
not possible, do not allow player characters 
on one side of the fight to take actions based 
on information known only to the other side. 

Simion, the 10 beggars, and the player 
character bodyguards enter the street from 
the north end. The group may be arranged 
however the players want, so long as Simion 
is protected. 

The Veiled Society player characters 


receive orders to be ready to attack on the 
leader's signal. They must attempt to capture 
or kill Simion. He must not be allowed to try 
to make peace among the factions. A good 
description is given of Simion. Simion is the 
only one that matters. The characters may 
deal with the others as they see fit. 

When the bodyguard reaches the middle of 
the street, the Veiled Society attacks. All 
attacks made by the Society members are 
intended to reach and kill Simion. If possible, 
they avoid fighting other characters (NPC or 
player). Unless the characters have made 
preparations, it takes them one round to 
remove their bindings. All NPCs use fake 
bindings that can be removed without loss of 
a round. 

Simion: AC 9; MV 40'; HD 1; hp 5; #AT 
1; D 1-4; Save Normal Human; M 9; AL L 

Beggars (10) (1st level thieves): AC 7; MV 
40'; HD 1; hp 3; #AT 1; D 1-4 or 1-8; Save 
Tl; M 6; AL N 

Veiled Society Men (15) (1st level fighters): 
AC 4; MV 40'; HD 1; hp 5; #AT 1; D 1-4 
or 1-8; Save FI; M 9; ALC 


If the characters capture any of the men, they 
have one chance to break his morale. If they 
are successful, the member says that a red- 
haired man hired them. No one knows this 

man. 

Veiled Society Leader (3rd level cleric): AC 
3; MV 40'; HD 3; hp 13; #AT 1, +3 to hit; 
D 1-6+3; Save C3; M 10; AL C; Spells light, 
protection from evil ; Magic Items mace +1, 
gauntlets of ogre power 

If captured, this man makes a show of resist 
ing and then apparently breaks down. His 
name is Flaviare. He has red hair. He "con 
fesses" that the Torenescu hired him to kill 
Lucia, and that they control the Veiled Soci 
ety. But he is not the murderer. He has no 
wounds other than those he may have 
obtained struggling with the PCs. 

At the end of the fight, if Simion is still 
alive, he continues to the Senator's house. 
The characters escorting Simion are paid 500 
gp each and sent away. 

If the Veiled Society kills Simion, those 
characters will be paid only 200 gp each. 
They are told they will be contacted as 
needed. 


FURTHER INVESTIGATION 


After the ambush the characters can continue 
the investigation into Lucia Vorloi's mur 
derer. They should have several clues to work 
with. Each clue and where it leads is listed 
below. 

Red Hair: These are hairs from one of the 
two attackers. Red hair was found under 
Lucia's fingernails and dried in the blood of 
the dagger she used on one of her attackers. 
More was found in a black hood lying in 
Turano's guest house. As a clue it does not 
provide much information to the characters, 
but it will help them identify one of the men. 
No one in the Torenescu family has red hair. 
No one in the Radu or Vorloi families has red 
hair. 

Pitch: This is common naval pitch used in 
sealing boats. Some pitch was found on the 
rungs of the ladder leading to the cellar. The 
characters can check for places that have or 
sell pitch. There are 4 major suppliers, all 
down on the waterfront. All have seen at 
some point a red-haired man. They all sell 
pitch to anyone who wants it — fishermen, 
boatbuilders, housewives, etc. 

Blood: The blood is from the red-haired 
attacker. Characters may be able to deduce 
this because the hairs were found mingled 
with the blood. The red-haired man has been 
injured badly as indicated by the amount of 
dried blood found in the Vorloi house. The 
injured man left no trail of blood. 


Ring: The ring is a false clue, planted by the 
attackers when they returned. If presented to 
the Torenescu, it takes them a day to deter 
mine who it belongs to. It is the property of 
Stephanos, cousin of Aleksandar. Stephanos 
was the young man spurned by Lucia not 
long ago. He claims the ring has been missing 
for nearly a month. He also has an alibi for 
the time of the murder. 

Writing: Lucia was attempting to spell 
"Radu," since she recognized one of the 
attackers as a Radu man when she tore his 
hood off. 

Wine: Wine was found dribbled by the 
bloodstains in the Vorloi house. The wine is 
brought into the city on Radu ships and is 
sold mostly in small inns in the wharf area. 
Aristo, the Wine Merchant on Vinter's 
Lane, also sells this type of wine. If con 
fronted, he gives the characters the names of 
those buyers he can remember. The names 
are Heranthes the Cobbler (innocent), Good 
man Christos (innocent), Akarios the Ship 
wright (red-haired and guilty), Theodoric 
Angulsta (innocent), and Seraphim the Min 
strel (innocent). He says there are undoubt 
edly others who also buy the wine, but he 
cannot remember. 

Rope: The rope was used in the murder. It is 
a type of rope used in ships and other heavy 
lifting situations. 

Do not give the information above to the 


11 







THE CHASE 


characters too rapidly. They must discover 
the meaning of the clues for themselves. Con 
firm obvious information (Is this the type of 
rope used on boats?); however, do not tell the 
characters they are correct if their questions 
are vague. 

When the characters are at this stage of the 
investigation, it is impossible to know where 
they will want to go in the city. Do not try to 
restrict them. Allow the characters to go 
where they wish, within reason. The only 
place the characters cannot go is the Duke's 
castle. Furthermore, except for minor assist 
ance, the characters cannot get any help from 
the city officials. Remember, the characters 
have no official title and are conducting the 
investigation on their own. 


THE CHASE 

This encounter occurs as the characters make 
their investigations. As they move about, 
they are identified by agents of the Veiled 
Society. Following the instructions of the 
Radu, the Society prepares an ambush for 
the characters. During the encounter, the 
characters are not able to get help from the 
constabulary or soldiers. All are currently 
occupied in preventing a new riot. If the 
characters try to get such help, make it clear 
that this will be no use. 

The PCs may decide to chase their attack 
ers, if not killed immediately. It is important 
that you know how fast the player characters 
can move in a round. During the chase, if 
both sides move at the same rate, there is only 
a slight chance the pursuer will catch the pur 
sued. Each third round of the chase, roll 
ldlO. On a roll of 1-2, the space between the 
two groups closes by one round's worth of 
movement. Keep track of the distance 
between the two sides. There are delays in the 
encounter that expand the distance and could 
allow the NPCs to escape. 

Characters may possibly capture the NPCs 
before they reach the secret entrance at E 
(Map 6). If this happens, the characters can 
still learn the location of this entrance by 
questioning their captive. If all the NPCs are 
killed, the characters will find a message on 
one of the bodies. The message says, "Be at 
the Blue Water Mead Hall tonight." 

Read the following encounter as the char 
acters head for the Blue Water Mead Hall. 
For the beginning of this encounter, set out 
the paper buildings according to the area 
marked "start" on Map 6. 


The sounds of shouting and screaming 
fade, the scene of pandemonium behind. 
The streets are deserted of all sensible peo 
ple. Suddenly, an arrow flashes past. A 
hooded man is standing on a side street 
and furiously cranks his crossbow for 
another shot. 


Because of the suddenness of the attack, the 
player characters must roll for surprise. If the 
party is surprised, the man fires another shot 
at the group. He continues to do this until the 
characters attack or charge him. He then 
runs in the direction shown on Map 6. 

Crossbowman (1st level fighter): AC 4; hp 
7; Running Speed 90'; #AT 1; D 1-6; Save 
F1;M7;ALC 

A. Arrow Ambush 

If the characters run after the man, have the 
group roll normally for surprise as they round 
the comer. If the characters advance with 
caution, they notice three hooded bowmen, 
one at each of the positions marked by an 
"X." These men are waiting for the cross 
bowman to lead the player characters around 
the comer. 


The bowmen shoot once and flee. They do 
not melee with the characters unless forced. 
They run in the direction shown on the map. 

Bowmen (3): AC 7; Running Speed 90'; 
HD 1; hp 5; #AT 1; D 1-6; Save Normal 
men; M 6; AL N 

B. Booth 

As the last fleeing bowman passes this booth, 
he grabs one of the poles, pulling the fabric 
down. The booth collapses in a billowing 
heap that blocks the path for two rounds. The 
vendor stands next to his booth, screaming 
curses and angrily trying to stop anyone 
around him. 

C. Crowd 

This street is very busy. People fleeing the 
area of the new riot clog the thoroughfare. All 
characters (pursued and pursuing) are only 
able to move at half their normal Running 
Speed while on this street. 

D. Cart 

This street has a slight incline. At the top of 
the incline is a fishmonger's cart. The fleeing 
men stop at this cart and spend one round 
pushing it down the slope. The cart moves at 
30' per round. The cart strikes a character on 
a die roll of 20. All player characters can be 
struck, unless the character takes a specific 
action to avoid the cart. Characters struck by 
the cart take no damage, but spend two 
rounds being knocked down and standing 
up. If the characters do not stop the cart, it 
rolls into the busy thoroughfare, and plows 
into the crowd. Several people are badly 
injured. 

E. Guard 


Around the comer is a dead end alley. 
Your quarry is not there, but there is 
nowhere they could have gone. Standing 
at the far end of the alley is a huge, half- 
naked man holding a two-handed sword. 


The man is the guard from Room 6 of the 
Chambers of the Veiled Ones. He is guarding 
the secret entrance at the end of the alley. If 
the characters do not advance or attack the 
man, he stands immobile. Otherwise, he 
fights to the death. 

Giant Guard (1) (3rd level fighter): AC 6; 
MV 40'; HD 3; hp 19; #AT 1; D 1-10+3; 

Save F3; M 12; AL C; +3 on hit rolls 


12 





THE CHAMBERS OF THE VEILED ONES 


This is the final encounter. If the players han 
dle the encounter correctly, they learn who 
murdered Lucia Vorloi and who is in charge 
of the Veiled Society. Less successful play will 
only give part of this answer. 

There are several ways characters can 
enter this encounter. If they have pursued the 
ambushers, they may find the secret entrance 
to Room 6. If they have captured the orator 
or the ambushers, they have information to 
go to the Blue Water Mead Hall. Careful 
observation here allows them to find the 
entrance to the Society's chambers. 


1. The Blue Water Mead Hall 


The Mead Hall is a bright, clean building. 
Inside, several sailors in the center of the 
room strike up a rousing but badly off-key 
chorus of a sea chanty. One plays a simple 
bagpipe at a furious pace. Near them, sev 
eral men link arms and begin a noisy step- 
dance. Their stomps punctuate the ribald 
wolds of the song. There is much clatter of 
mugs and talk. The tavern keeper and 
several potboys whisk through the crowd, 
slamming down drinks and catching 
thrown coins. Near the back are two cur 
tained doorways. 


A red-haired man sits near the back of the 
room. If the characters have a description of 
Akarios, they recognize him. If it is near eve 
ning, the man leaves the room, and goes 
through one of the curtained doorways. If the 
characters approach the man, he springs to 
his feet and runs for the curtained doorway. 
He holds his right arm close to his side. 

Akarios: AC 9; MV 40'; HD 1; hp 4; #AT 

1; D 1-4; Save Normal Man; ML 6; AL N 

If the party catches the man and accuses him 
of murdering Lucia, he attempts to bluff. If 
the party presents any reasonable proof (true 
or not) or threatens torture, make a morale 
check for Akarios. If he fails the check, he 
talks, saying that the Veiled Society ordered 
him to murder Lucia. He tells about the 
secret entrance to the chambers from the 
Mead Hall. 

If the party does not catch the man, he 
escapes behind the curtain. 

2. Beyond the Curtain 


Two men sit on the floor near the curtain, 
playing dice. Both look up curiously. 
Behind the curtain is a short hallway that 
ends in a Dutch door. The top half is open, 
showing the street beyond. 


If the party asks about Akarios, the men 
point to the back door. On the street there is 
no sign of him. The men try to prevent the 
characters from searching the hallway that 
hides the secret passage. One of the men is a 
cleric who casts a silence spell to cover any 
noise of fighting. The other is a fighter who 
tries to make his first attack when the charac 
ters turn their backs. After this he fights nor 
mally. 

Cleric (3rd level): AC 5; MV 30'; HD 2; hp 
14; #AT 1; D 1-6; Save C3; ML 10; AL C; 
Spells light, cure light wounds 

Fighter (3rd level): AC 5; MV 40'; HD 3; 
hp 17; #AT 1; D 1-8+1; Save F3; ML 9; AL 
C; +1 on to hit rolls; potion ofinvisibility 

3. Robing Chamber 


This chamber is barely large enough for 
two people to stand in. On one wall is a 
shelf piled with red robes and black 
leather hoods. Otherwise, the room is 
bare. 


The doors to this room are designed to pre 
serve the secrecy of anyone robing in the 
chamber. Each door automatically locks 
when closed and cannot open again until the 
other door in the room is opened and closed. 
This effectively prevents more than one per 
son or group from using the room. 

4. Sirenflower Passage 


The passage forks. From one passage 
comes the faint smell of incense and a faint 
glow of light. The other passage is black. 


The dark passage leads to Room 5, the Meet 
ing Chamber. The passage that smells of 
incense and shines with light leads to a 
sirenflower. Halfway down the passage, the 
first tendrils of the plant grow on the wall. 
When the characters reach the end of the pas 
sage, the sirenflower closes behind them. In 
the roots of the sirenflower are a few bones 
and rusted items. Searching among these 
reveals 500 gp and a potion of diminution. 

Sirenflower: AC 9; MV Nil; HD 5; hp 24; 

#AT 0; D 1-4; Save F5; ML 12; AL N 

5. Meeting Chamber 

If the characters have not made noise from 
chopping down doors, loud fighting, arguing 
noisily amongst themselves, etc., and they 
are cautious, read the following description 
to them. 


The glow of light and a droning sound 
comes from down the passage. Ahead is 
an archway shining with a red light. 


A large room is gloomily lit by smolder 
ing fires. Standing along the walls of the 
room are 20 men, all dressed in red robes 
and black hoods. At the far side of the 
room is a man wearing a red and gold robe 
and a large wooden mask. His face does 
not show under the mask. He is speaking 
to the crowd in a hollow echoing voice. 
Behind him is a large bronze gong. 

The masked leader booms, "And now 
is our time! The city will lie helpless 
before us! The people will side with us. 
Our enemies can be crushed. The Duke 
will feel our power, will hear only our 
voice. Those who oppose us are weak, 
those who betray us are traitors. We know 
what to do with traitors." Shouts of agree 
ment fill the air. 

"Then take him, take the traitor!" he 
shouts, and points to one of the robed 
men. "He will suffer for disobeying our 
orders. The woman should not have been 
killed!" 

At this the other masked men spring 
toward the accused, an inarticulate growl 
of rage in their throats. His screams of 
panic rise above all. 


If the characters do nothing but watch, they 
witness the horrible death of one of the mem 
bers of the Veiled Society. Lawful characters 
will not suffer an alignment change, however. 
Unless one character watches the leader, he is 
gone when they look for him again. After the 
traitor is dead, the members turn to leave, 
one at a time, the secret meeting obviously 
over. Half the members leave by the passage 
to the Blue Water Mead Hall. The others 
leave by the secret entrance that leads to the 
blind alley. 

If the characters act during the confusion, 
the Society members attack them. If any 
member of the party watches the leader dur 
ing the commotion, he sees the leader slip 
behind the gong and disappear. 

The traitor slain by the members was the 
man who assisted Akarios with the murder of 
Lucia. If the characters check his body, they 
find nothing of interest. 

Searching the room reveals nothing of use 
or value. 

Veiled Society Members (20): AC 9; MV 
40'; HD 1; hp 4; #AT 1; D 1-4; Save Nor 
mal Man; M 9; AL C 

Leader (3rd level magic-user): AC 8; MV 
40'; HD 2; hp 7; #AT 1; D 1-4+1; Save MU 
3+1; M 8; AL C; Spells charm person, 
sleep, invisibility, Magic Items dagger +1; 
ring ofprotection +1 

The leader is Antonito Radu. If captured, he 
tries to place the blame for all events on Zweis 
Radu. 


13 





The Chambers of the Veiled Ones 


If the characters did not defeat the guard in 
the alley in the previous encounter, he is in 
this chamber. He is mute and attacks anyone 
he does not recognize. He does not recognize 
the player characters. He is slavishly loyal to 
the Radu and does not reveal anything about 
them willingly. 

Giant Guard (3rd level fighter): AC 6; MY 
40'; HD 3; hp 19; #AT 1; D 1-10+3; Save 
F3; M 12; AL C; +3 on hit rolls 

7. Cell 


The room is unlit and foul-smelling. 
Straw crackles underfoot. There is a shuf 
fling of chains from one comer. 


Held prisoner in this room is Estaish, a mem 
ber of the Duke's Elvengard. He is chained to 
the wall. The manacles are locked around his 
feet and hands. No key is in sight. He is weak 
and has been tortured. He can barely talk. 

If rescued, he shows the party all secret 
doors out of the room. He comes with the 
party, but cannot fight and can only walk 
with support. If the characters succeed in get 
ting him outside, he accompanies the player 
characters as an NPC on future adventures. 
There is no question of his loyalty, although 
he does not accept unreasonable orders. He 
serves the characters in the best and wisest 
manner. 

He has no equipment with him other than 
clothing. His remaining equipment (chain 
armor, sword, and bow) is in Room 8. 

Estaish learned a great deal about the 
Veiled Society during his imprisonment. He 


can identify the murderer of Lucia Vorloi and 
knows the murder was done on the orders of 
the Veiled Society. He knows that the Radu 
family is involved in the Veiled Society and is 
responsible for inciting the riots in the city. If 
used as a witness to the Duke concerning the 
Radu and the Society, he can destroy the 
Radu as a power faction forever. 

Estaish (1st level elf): AC 9; MV 6" due to 
weakness; HD 1; hp 3; #AT 0; D 0; Save 
El; ML 12; AL L; Spells None 

8. The Secret Chamber 


The chamber is brightly lit by hundreds of 
sputtering candles that give the room a 
warm, yellow glow. In the center of the 
room is a table piled with books and 
papers. On the floor is an old man. He lies 
face down in a small pool of blood. Stand 
ing over him is a middle-aged swarthy 
man holding a sword to a younger man's 
chest. 

The younger man shouts, "Stop him! 
He has slain our father! He is a mur 
derer! " 

"Get back you fools or die now!" says 
the man. "I've had enough meddling and 
foolishness." He leaps forward to attack 
you. 


The younger man is Zweis Radu, the older 
man, Cartha Radu. Cartha will attempt to 
kill the player characters, then escape. If he is 
severely wounded, he attempts to fight his 
way past the characters and flee. During this 
fight Zweis assists the characters. 


If Zweis is still alive after the fight, he 
thanks the characters and offers them a 
reward. The reward is a position within his 
organization — the Veiled Society. If the 
characters accept, those of Lawful alignment 
will change to Chaotic. If the characters 
refuse, Zweis tries to bribe them. He offers 
each character 500 gp in jewels from a small 
wooden box in the desk. If the characters still 
refuse, Zweis lets them go and immediately 
makes plans to flee the city. 

If the characters search this room, they 
find 3000 gp worth of gems in a small box and 
Estaish's equipment. The dead man on the 
floor is Anton Radu. 

If the characters try to examine the papers 
or take these with them, Zweis attacks. The 
papers are a complete account of the Radu 
family's actions and the Veiled Society. 

Cartha (6th level fighter): AC 1; MV 40'; 
HD 6; hp 39; #AT 1; D 1-8+2; Save F3+3; 
ML 11; AL C; +4 on all hit rolls due to 
magic weapon and high level; ring of pro 
tection +1; sword +2 

Zweis (3rd level fighter): AC 3; MV 40'; 
HD 3; hp 21; #AT 1; D 1-8+1; Save F3; M 
9; AL C; sword +1 

If the papers are placed in the hands of the 
Duke or any other family, all members of the 
Veiled Society and Radu faction are declared 
traitors and sentenced to death. 

Not all members of the Veiled Society are 
captured. Those that escape learn of the char 
acters' involvement in the family downfall. 
This can be a starting point for adventures as 
the Radu faction tries to take revenge on the 
player characters. 


AFTER THE ADVENTURE 


This adventure is only a small sample of the life of such a large and varied 
city as Specularum. Within the walls live thousands of people. The range 
and variety of what can and does happen is endless. This adventure gives 
your players a starting place, a knowledge of the city and its politics. 
Surely, the politics are not over with the destruction of the Radu. As the 
characters increase in level and importance, they can become more 
involved in the affairs and intrigue of the city and the Duke's court. These 
adventures are left to your imagination. Use the city as a base and build 
your own world around it. 





THE CHASE AND THE CHAMBERS OF THE VEILED ONES 



i 

Fold-up Building 

m 

Fold-up Gate 

ooooo 

oooo 

ooooo 

Crowd Area 

W^ijilmYr 

Underground 

A/V\ 

Curtain 


Route of Assassins 

-O- 

Door 

111111"" 

Stairs 


Secret Door 


Balcony 


15 


• 1984 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 















































HP 


The following pre-generated characters are 
provided for this adventure. Use them if your 


1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 









players do not have characters or do not want 
to use their own. All of these characters are 

CLASS 

C 

F 

E 

H 

c 

D 

MU 

STR 

6 

16 

7 

14 

8 

16 

8 

first level and have no equipment. The gold 

listed for each is the amount the player has to 

INT 

11 

8 

17 

14 

7 

18 

16 

buy equipment for his character. 

WIS 

16 

10 

16 

5 

14 

15 

12 


DEX 

10 

13 

6 

14 

12 

11 

14 


CON 

9 

12 

16 

9 

12 

13 

10 


CHA 

8 

11 

7 

9 

11 

10 

9 


NEW MONSTER 


Sirenflower 

Armor Class: 9 

Hit Dice: 5 

Move: i 0 

Attacks: 0 

Damage: J| Special 

No. Appearing 1-2 (1-6) 

Save As: t Fighter 5 

Morale: ft 12 

Type: V 

X: .... N 

4 175 

ft 

is a large carnivorous fungus 
ioped the disguise of a normal- 
It captures its prey by luring 
toward its center. To do this, the 
Icents and lights. The scents are 
those n^af the plant, particularly 
pv^rs or rotting meats. The light is 
p^*^pale'glowing, no brighter than a candle at 
^foest. 

Once a creature reaches the center of the 
plant, a web ofbrimching arms close in, trap 
ping the creature and slowly crushing it. 
These branches squeeze with great force, 
causii^ 1-4 points of damage per round. In 
ition, the branches also ooze an enzyme 
: dissolves flesh. This is very slow-acting 
and only does 1-10 points of damage each 
turn (not round). Creatures trapped by the 
sirenflower can still fight but have a -4 pen- 
on all hit rolls. 

tn the sirenflower reaches 0 hit points, 
it it nol dead, but all he branches have been 
chopped away. The only way to totally kill a 
nflawed is to dig up and burn the root, 
p creature grows back at the same rate as a 
al plarfjf 

v > 


PRE-GENERATED CHARACTERS 


16 




Basic Game Adventure 


The Veiled Society 

by David Cook 


The widow insists there are demons in her 
house. She hears them at night in her root cel 
lar, and now they call out to her. But she is old 
and nervous and her mind often plays tricks on 
her. 

* * * 

Two men, their heads fully sheathed in large, 
black hoods, dig quickly in the darkness of the 
cellar. The hole grows deeper as their shovels 
bite into the earth. 

“This will teach those meddlers their place,” 
laughs the tall, hefty figure. 

“But it’s too bad this was an accident,” the 
shorter, slim figure says haltingly. 

“But don’t you see the advantage?” snapped 
the tall man. “They will fear us now. They will 
fear for their lives.” 

Grunting, they heave a sailcloth bundle into 
the hole. As it falls, a woman’s hand dangles 
lifelessly from the folds. 

Who is the woman? Why will her death trig 
ger riots and unrest in the city of Specularum? 

And the assassins: Are they Torenescu, 
Radu, or Vorloi? Or, curse of curses, the Veiled 
Society? 

This special game adventure provides a sec 
tion of paper buildings and figures to cut out 
and use, giving you three dimensions to your 
game play! 


ISBN 0-88038-085-3 
394-53807-2TSR0600 



This module is for use with the DUNGEONS & DRAGONS® Basic Set, 
and cannot be played without the D&D Basic rules produced by TSR, Inc. 

® 1984 TSR, Inc. All Right Reserved. Printed in U.S.A. 


TSR, Inc. 
POB 756 
Lake Geneva, 
WI53147 


TSR(CJK) Ltd. 
The Mill, Rathmore Road 
Cambridge CBMAD 
United Kingdom 


9086XXX1401 

































