Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09057 L 2 The Assassin's Knot"
See other formats
L2 Adventure Module for Character Levels 2-5 9057 



Advanced 

Dun3eons|5J)ragons 


The Assassin's Knot 

by Len Lakofka 


The second module in the LENDORE ISLE Series 


Murder most foul! A small ruby, a leather button, and a golden lute string are your only leads, 
Can you follow them to the heart of THE ASSASSIN'S KNOT? 









ENLARGED AREA MAP 



Road 


Water 


Swamp 


Building 


Statue 


Docks 


Octopus 


1 HEX 'A Milo 







































GARROTTI 


Castle Lower Level 


To 3 



Outside 


@ Secret Trap Door 
_ J in Floor 


-vwuv Curtain 


L2, The Assassins' Knot 

106-M-90S7 






Statue 


1 square = 5' 















































































































N CASTLE 


- 

° O' 



1 0 

K- 















1 



13 









1 "** 1 


( Guardhouse Second Floor 


Gatehouse Second Floor 

The ladder in area 5 loads to the battlements between 
the gatehouse towers. 




C 1983 TSR Hobbles. Inc. All Rights Reserved 






















































































































































































The Assassin's Knot 

by Len Lakofka 


AN ADVENTURE MODULE FOR CHARACTER LEVELS 2-5 


This module can be played alone or as the second part of the LENDORE ISLE Series. 



Baron Grellus of Resternford is dead. All clues point to the small town of Garrotten, a day's 
journey to the south. The sorceror Pelltar of Restenford has asked you to undertake a secret 
investigation of the crime. Can you succeed before the murderer strikes again? 


ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS is a registered trademark owned by TSR Hobbies, Inc. 

AD&D is a trademark owned by TSR Hobbies, Inc. 

Distributed to the book trade in the United States by Random House. Inc., and in Canada by Random 
House of Canada Ltd. 
Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors. Distributed in the United Kingdom by 
TSR Hobbies (UK) Ltd. 

This module is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or 
other unauthorized use of the material or 
artwork contained herein is prohibited without the express written consent of TSR Hobbies, Inc. 

(c)1983 TSR Hobbies, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


PRINTED IN U.S.A. 
ISBN 0-935696-70-9 
394-51835-7TSR600 


TSR Hobbies Inc. 
POB 756 
Lake Geneva, 
Wl 53147 


TSR Hobbies (UK) Ltd. 

(tm) The Mill, Rathmore Road 
Cambridge CB1 4AD 
United Kingdom 


TSR Hobbies. Inc. 


9057 
















Dungeon Module L2 


The Assassin's Knot 


This module is a sequel to module LI Secret of Bone Hill. 

Although that module is not necessary to play this one, they 
can be used together as parts of a continuing adventure. If you 
plan to participate in this module as a player, please stop 
reading here. Knowing the details of this module will make it 
less fun to play for all concerned. 




INTRODUCTION 


This module is different from most other modules-it is a 
murder MYSTERY. The players will have to assemble the clues 
you give to discover the murderer and prevent him from carry 
ing out his plans. Because so much of the action depends on 
what the player characters do, you must pace the events of this 
module to be both challenging and entertaining. Remember, 
ACTIONS LEAD TO REACTIONS, there is a strong emphasis 
on character interaction, and the investigation has a definite 
deadline. Parties who rely only on force should not expect to 
do well in this adventure. 

This module is designed for play by 6-10 characters of levels 
2-5, totaling at least 20 levels. Parties with more than 35 levels, 
or any 6th level characters, may find the going too easy. The 
adventure begins in a large inn where assassins and a thief live. 
The action moves to a church run by a crazy old coot high 
priest who can be both a help and a hindrance; a theater where 
the party might find help from a bard; and a town with many 
interesting occupants. The party may even raid the castle of an 
evil magic user! 


Read the module carefully before running it for the players. 
Give special attention to the non-player characters (NPCs) 
and the ways the clues may lead to the mysterious assassin in 
this adventure. Carefully comparing the text to the maps while 
studying the module will give you good ideas on how to fit the 
encounters into an ongoing adventure. 

The following abbreviations are used to summarize the infor 
mation given about monsters and NPCs: 

AC = Armor Class: MV = Movement; HD = Hit Dice; hp = hit 
points; AT = Number of Attacks; D = Damage; SA = special 
attack; SD = special defenses; S = Strength, I = Intelligence; 
W = Wisdom; D = Dexterity; C = Constitution; CH = Charisma. 


DM's Background 


Baron Grellus of Restenford is dead. All clues point to Garrot- 
ten (Gar RO ten), a small town about 18 miles to the south of 
Restenford. The party has been secretly contacted in Resten 
ford by the sorceror Pelltar to find out who murdered the Baron 
and to bring the murderer to justice. Pelltar really wants to 
continue his researches in peace, but the death of the Baron 
threatens the stability of the whole region. 

The Baron was found strangled at 8 AM Monday morning. His 
bedroom was locked from the inside. No furniture or other 
objects were overturned or broken; however, three clues to the 
murderer were found in the room. First, a small red ruby (value 
50 gp) was located near the body. Second, a golden lute string 
was found under the bed. Third, a red leather button was found 
in the Baron's hand. Restenford castle has been sealed to 
outsiders until the Baron's wife and daughter recover from the 
shock. The effort to speak with dead gave no clues, and all 
attempts to raise the Baron met with failure. However, Pelltar 
has acquired the following information: 

An old man with long white hair, wearing a blue robe with the 
symbol of three barracuda on it, ate at the Restenford inn. This 
symbol is known to represent one of the major sea deities 
worshipped on Lendore Isle: Osprem, Goddess of the Seas 
and Water Travel. A temple to this deity is located in Garrotten. 
The old man displayed a beautiful golden holy symbol, a small 
whale. The eyes of the whale were red rubies. 


A man in traveling clothes appeared at a local tavern where he 
had a few drinks and played the lute for the people in the 
tavern. He stayed a few hours and then left. The lute had 
unusual golden strings. 

A man came into town to buy a few barrels of beer and have 
them shipped to his inn in Garrotten. He wore a distinctive red 
vest with ornate red buttons. When shown the button found in 
the Baron's room, the wine merchant identified it as resem 
bling the ones on the innkeeper's vest. 

The guard at the south gate of Restenford (whose road leads to 
Garrotten) remembered each of the three men. They arrived 
one after the other, about an hour apart, between 7 PM and 9 
PM Sunday night. None of these men were seen to leave 
Restenford, but a later search of the town did not find them. 
Pelltar the sorceror thinks he knows them. The first is Harper, the 
high priest of the Church of Osprem in Garrotten. The second 
is Balmorrow, a theater owner in Garrotten. The third seems to 
be Abraham, the town's innkeeper. 

The party knows that Garrotten does not enjoy a good reputa 
tion. Dark rumors suggest that Garrotten is the headquarters 
for assassins who operate right under the nose of the town's 
mayor. There is no proof that such a guild exists, but a com 
mon phrase in much of this area is, "If you want someone 
killed, go to Garrotten." It is up the party to find out who killed 
the Baron and why, and to bring the guilty party to Restenford 
if possible. 


2 










The Murder-DM ONLY 


All three suspects are innocent. The Baron of Restenford was 
murdered by Tellish, head of the Assassins' Guild in Garrotten. 
Tellish accomplished the murder by using a cloak of ethereal 
ness and his abilities to climb walls and pick locks. At 7 PM he 
entered town dressed as the high priest of the temple of 
Osprem. He then sneaked out of town, removed the high priest 
disguise, and re-entered as the theater owner at 8 PM. Once 
that role was played, he again left by the wall and entered town 
at 9 PM disguised as the innkeeper. Tellish then removed the 
last disguise and went to perform the assassination at 1 AM. He 
then climbed the town wall a third time and returned to 
Garrotten. 

Tellish selected Sunday night to perform the assassination 
because none of the men he framed are usually in public view 
then. The high priest always retires very early on Sunday and 
does not reappear until 9 AM Monday morning. The theater 
owner does not have performances on Saturday or Sunday 
and is usually setting up new backdrops or rehearsing alone 
for next week's show. The innkeeper has Sunday night off and 
usually retires to his room for a quiet evening. Thus none of the 
three has a good alibi. 


The Plot 

The assassin was hired by Qualton, the canon of the Church of 
Phaulkon in Restenford. Qualton suffers from a form of schi 
zophrenia that produces occasional fits of megalomania. It is 
his goal to become Baron of Restenford himself, but to do So 
he must murder the current Baron and Baroness, then marry 
the Baron's daughter. In his twisted mind this all seems quite 
logical and possible. 


Qualton's desire to kill the Baron and Baroness fits right into 
the plans of Arrness, the mayor of Garrotten. She would like to 
see the Baron's entire line die out (including the daughter, 
Andrella). Arrness, as the strongest surviving political leader in 
this part of Lendore Isle, could then claim the town of Resten 
ford in addition to her town of Garrotten. The Duke of Kroten is 
too busy with non-human raids on his borders to intervene- 
and would probably support a strong local ruler anyway... 
Thus, Qualton paying Tellish to kill the Baron has played right 
into Arrness' hands! 

On the following Sunday Tellish will again travel to Resten 
ford. He will assume no guises this time, however. He will just 
sneak into the castle and murder the Baroness. If nothing 
stops him, one week later he will kill Andrella and Qualton as 
well! The death of the Baroness should be a strong hint to the 
party that they are under time pressure, if they have not yet 
guessed. 


The Assassins' Guild 

Tellish poses as a clerical advisor to Arrness. He is a cleric who 
became an assassin, and now enjoys the benefits of both 
professions as a dual-classed character. His guild has two 
other members in the castle garrison, three at the inn, and one 
posing as a caretaker at the church. Associate members of the 
guild are the mayor of the town herself (Arrness, a 6th level 
magic-user) and brigands from the nearby woods, who occa 
sionally provide "muscle" for the Guild. The Assassins' Guild is 
well concealed in the town, and only Tellish knows everyone 
else. It is essential that you read through the module carefully 
prior to play to understand how the Assassins' Guild is linked 
at locations 1 (the castle), 2 (the inn) and 3 (the church). 


Assassins' Guild Roster 


Character 

Rank 

Usual Hangout 

Cover 

Tellish 

C5/A6 

Castle 

C3 

Sangster 

A4* (spy) 

Castle/Town patrol 

F2 

Gellius 

A3 

Castle/Town 

F2 

Rogan 

A1 

Castle/Town 

clean-up boy 

Thomas 

A1 

Castle/Town 

student 

Philmar 

A3 

Inn 

hunter 

Oscar 

A3 

Inn 

local 

Basmar 

A4* 

Inn 

smuggler 

Lothar 

A5* 

Temple 

groundskeeper 

Gilmi (Dw) F4 (spy) 

Smithy 

smith 

Arrness 

M6* 

Castle 

mayor 

Holga 

Ml (spy) Castle 

student 

Glami 

M3 (spy) 

Inn 

barkeeper 


* Knows Tellish is the head of the guild. 


Note that there are few assassins. One mass melee could easily 
destroy the entire guild. Thus, the guild will avoid a direct 
confrontation at all costs, and try to minimize their losses at all 
times. They can expect little help from the castle guards unless 
the party does something overt. Most of the guards are not 
involved in the guild, and it would be politically unwise of 
Arrness to order the guards to attack the party without cause. 


CHRONOLOGY OF EVENTS 


Although play will vary a good deal depending on party 
actions, the general plotline follows this schedule: 


SUNDAY: 

MONDAY: 

TUESDAY: 

SUNDAY: 

MONDAY: 

SATURDAY: 


SUNDAY: 

MONDAY: 


Tellish murders Baron Grellus and plants 
his false clues. 

The player characters are assembled in 
Restenford by the wizard Peltar. Investiga 
tions point to Garrotten. 

The characters travel to Garrotten. arriving 
about 8 PM. They will probably stay at the 
House of Abraham, the only inn in town. 
They will be very tired after their trip. 

If the players have not solved the mystery 
(most won't). Tellish assassinates the 
Baroness. 

Word of the assassination reaches Garrotten. 
Events of this week depend on player 
actions. Probably the mystery will be solved 
and the characters will raid the mayor's cas 
tle. If the DM wants a confrontation with 
Qualton (using LI), the characters will hear 
a rumor that Qualton has proposed to 
Andrella. 

If Tellish isn't stopped, he will assassinate 
both Andrella and Qualton. 

Word reaches Garrotten. Within a few days, 
Arrness and Tellish begin their political 
takeover. Pelltar retires from the scene. The 
characters must adapt to the new order or 
flee. 


Some events may happen at anytime, if certain conditions are 
fulfilled. The following are typical, though the DM may wish to 
make up others depending on the flow of play. 


3 



The Arrest of Abraham. If the party goes to Arrness (or she 
hears of their investigation) she will hold an audience that will 
delay the party investigation half a day. Arrness will forbid the 
characters to continue, saying that she can keep order in her 
own town. The next day, Abraham will be arrested and con 
victed; the trial will cost the characters half a day if they go. 
Abraham will be executed morning of the second day follow 
ing, unless rescued. (The inn's stableboy, Falpir, will give his 
clue to the party if Abraham is condemned.) To make matters 
worse, if the innkeeper is executed, the mayor will tell the party 
that the innkeeper was hired by the sorceror Pelltar of Resten- 
ford! (As Pelltar is one of the most powerful NPCs in Resten- 
ford, Arrness would like to see him eliminated!) 

The Visit. While the party members are out, their rooms at the 
inn are ransacked by assassins. This event is most likely after 
the party has drawn attention to itself. An alternative is to have 
Wilfong, a common thief, caught (or nearly caught) in the act 
of robbery. 

The Octopus. Basmar at the inn spins a tale of a monstrous 
devilfish that attacks boats going upriver at the north end of the 
lake. His purpose is to distract the party from the investigation. 
Even if no one is killed, the hunt will take a full day. 

The Contact. The DM introduces a special NPC who sup 
posedly has vital information information. The main purpose 
of this encounter is to kill the NPC to demonstrate to the 
players how dangerous the investigation is. The exact details 
are up to the DM-the effect on the players is the most impor 
tant result. 

The Ambush. The party is lured out late one night by the 
promise of information. They are jumped by a gang of brig 
ands brought in from out of town. The purpose here is a brisk 
fight to break the pattern of cautious investigation-captured 
brigands will know little of value. The guild will need a few days 
to set this up properly, and they are not likely to try this more 
than once. Remember to set up an alibi for the NPC who lures 
them out ("I guess they weren't after ME, they just knocked me 
out.") 

The Crab Hunt. Harper, the high priest, invites the party on a 
crab hunt (do this only if the players have made a diplomatic 
blunder or aren't concentrating on their mission). The offer 
should be VERY hard to refuse. It will waste a day of investiga 
tion time. 

The Town Guard. Player characters skulking around at night 
are picked up by the town guard. Make it obvious the guards 
are just doing their job. Depending on how the players handle 
this encounter, they could get anything from a free drink and a 
friendly warning to a day or so in the castle dungeon for 
disorderly conduct, resisting arrest, and so on. Of course, the 
Penalty for killing a town guard is death, so a player mistake 
here could drive the investigation underground. 

Special Note. It is possible to make reports and get advice 
from Pelltar, but it takes a day for a message to be delivered 
and a day to get a reply. 

THE OUTSKIRTS OF GARROTTEN 

This area is shown on the large area map. This map also fits 
together with the area map in LI. Random encounters outside 
the town limits are at the discretion of the DM. The recom 
mended maximum encounter strength is 12 HD of creatures, 
with individual creatures less than 5 HD each. 


A. The Lake 

During the day it is 90% likely (if the weather is fair) that 2-7 
fishing boats from the town will row out together at dawn to 
fish in the lake, returning at sunset. At night, all boats are in the 
dock (4). On Tuesday all boats are removed from the water and 
left on the beach the full day (this is Osprem's holy day and all 
fishermen observe it). 

The fishermen know of all of the lake's dangers. They do not 
like others fishing on the lake, but they would like to see the 
octopus killed. Non-evil fishermen are 40% likely to tell of the 
lake's dangers in casual conversation, 95% if a character spe 
cifically mentions going out on the lake. An evil fisherman will 
only tell the character to stay off the lake. 

Fishing in the lake is reasonably good. Each character who 
goes net-fishing has a 20% chance per 6 hours to gain 1-8 fish 
worth 1-4 cp each. Line fishing yields 1-2 fish. A secondary 
skill in fishing adds 10% (all town fishermen have this, of 
course). 

B. Octopus Lair 

At the mouth of the lake where the Farmin River empties into 
Lake Farmin, a huge octopus occupies the few marked hexes. 
The creature is 30% likely to attack craft entering these hexes. 
It is no danger elsewhere in the lake, but does prevent the 
fishermen from going upriver. A special octopus hunt takes a 
a full day, but guarantees an encounter with the octopus. 

Huge octopus (AC 7; MV 37/12"; HD 6; hp 28; #AT 7; 
D 1 -3(x6)/1 -10; SA constriction: SD ink cloud). 

C. Beach 

This sandy beach with numerous rocky outcroppings is occu 
pied by the giant crabs that populate the southern portion of 
the lake. Anyone walking the beach is 35% likely to encounter 1 
or 2 crabs. 

Giant crabs (AC 3; MV 9"; HD 3; hp roll 3d8; #AT 2; D 2-8/2-8; 
SA surprise on 1-4). A giant crab can be sold in town for 1 sp 
per hit point of the dead crab. However, characters will not be 
able to sell more than two crabs a week. 

The Church of Osprem protects the crabs from overhunting 
and will take action if it finds out that characters are slaughter 
ing the crabs, especially if the characters use magic. Penalties 
are up to the DM, but fines or even a curse are possible, 
depending on the circumstances. The crabs in the lake are no 
threat to characters on the surface. 

D. Forest 

This area is where the assassins meet outsiders. Any such 
meetings will be arranged by the DM as needed. See the notes 
on character intrigue at the inn (2). 


4 



THE TOWN OF GARROTEN 


The town of Garrotten, formerly named Lake Farmin, is not a 
good town by any standard. The majority of its people are 
Lawful Neutral and a number are Lawful Evil. Most of the 
people here worship the Seul (SOOL) Gods, especially the sea 
gods Osprem and Xerbo, and the war god Kord. Each town 
building is listed in the Town Table. 

All buildings followed by an asterisk (*) have additional 
encounter information in the KEY TO GARROTTEN. 

All shops are fully stocked with common goods. Prices are 20% 
over Players Handbook prices, but some owners might go 
down to 10% over normal. Shopkeepers are not wealthy and 
few, if any, could afford to buy even the most minor of magics 
from a character. 

The DM may add additional description to the shopkeepers 
and peasants (fisherman, farmers, wives, and children) as 
needed. In general, these characters remain insignificant. 
They know no information of real value and will not be helpful 
to a party. They never know the alignment or level of other 
town occupants, to say nothing of someone else's treasure. 

Peasants and shopkeepers carry purses of from 1-20 coins 
(DM choice, but never gold or platinum). Children might (40%) 
have 1-2 cp. Homes of fishermen or farmers might (40%) con 
tain a stash of 1-10 gp. Shopkeepers always have a stash of 
1-100 gp at home and additional money at the shop (8-80 cp, 
4-40 sp; 50% chance of 2-20 ep and 1-10 gp). 

Brief descriptions (but not maps) are provided for the more 
important homes and businesses in the town. The DM should 
let the players look at the town map during play. 

The Town Patrol 

The town is patrolled regularly by a small troop of guards to 
insure the peace and to observe anyone new in town. Patrols 
do not march and their route is often erratic. They will normally 
leave the castle at noon and 8 PM, and the entire patrol takes 21 
to 40 minutes. The guards always check in at the inn. 


KEY TO GARROTTEN 

Buildings 1-4 are special encounter areas, described in detail 
after the town key. These are: the castle (1) the House of 
Abraham Inn (2) the Church of Osprem (3) and the Theater of 
the Mystic Celebration (4). 


5. MARTIN'S HOME 

This small 30' x 30' one-floor home has a new coat of white 
wash. The house is in excellent repair and tall, healthy flowers 
fill the flower boxes at each window. 

The cobblestone paths around the house are well tended. A 
beautiful apple tree stands before the front door. Another 
apple tree shades the rear door. North of the house lies a small, 
ordered plot of radishes and onions. Martin is known to be an 
excellent farmer; neighbors often take his advice. His wife and 
children usually work around the house. 

Martin, druid (AC 4; D3; MV 12"; hp 24; #AT 1; D by weapon; 
AL N; S 13, I 12, W 14, D 17, C 16, Ch 15). He is a large man, 6'3" 
and 195 lbs. He has short brown hair, a full beard, and wears 
brown and green robes at all times. Beneath his clothing he 
wears leather armor and a ring of protection +1. He carries a 
shillelagh of fine oak at all times and is seldom seen without his 
dog, Wolf. His purse contains 1-20 gp and 3-30 sp. Martin's 
usual spells are: 

First level: animal friendship, entangle, predict 

weather, shillelagh, speak with animals 
Second level: charm person or mammal, cure light 
wounds 

Third level: plant growth 

Wolf, war dog (AC 7; MV 18"; HD 1+2; hp 10; #AT 1; D 2-5) 

Martin is the druidic friend of Balmorrow the bard and trusts 
him completely (see the Theater section). 

13. LYDIA'S GENERAL STORE 

This is a 20' x 20' building, with a slightly smaller frame house 
behind it. The one-room house has two barred windows and 
only one iron reinforced door. The store has four barred win 
dows along the street side of the building. The main door is 
iron reinforced and has a lock. The store is open from 9 AM to 6 
PM, and is run by Lydia and her husband Gelmark. Only one of 
them will be here at any time. 

Lydia, fighter (AC 4; MV 24"; F5; hp 30; #AT 1; D by weapon; 
AL LN; S 13, I 13, W 14, D 11, C 16, Ch 18). She wears bracers of 
defense AC 4 (not obvious under the long sleeved dress she 
wears) and boots of striding and springing. She carries two 
throwing daggers tucked inside her boots. Inside the cubicle, 
she keeps a broadsword +2 (115; E 5; AL LN; empathy, detect 
good, detect evil). 

Gelmark, fighter (AC 8; MV 12"; F2; hp 12; #AT 1; D by weapon; 
AL LN; S 15, I 15, W 9, D 13, C 13, Ch 17). He carries a 
broadsword and dagger. 

Gelmark and his wife Lydia are part of an adventuring party 
that settled down here-perhaps permanently. The other party 
members are located at 26, 29, 32, and 39. Thus Lydia and 
Gelmark have people they trust and vice versa, in times of 
need. It is not common knowledge that they were an adventur 
ing party and this remains their secret. They do not know any 
useful information about the Assassins Guild. If Lydia or Gel 
mark are harmed or killed the rest of their party will seek to 
capture the characters responsible. 


-Patrol Composition- 

1-60 2-5 guards, select at random using d20. 

61-80 2-5 guards led by Sangster (posing as a fighter). 

It is 40% likely Sangster will leave the patrol and talk 
with one or more of the assassins in the inn. 
81-95 2-5 guards, plus (roll dl2): 

T Armax 

2 Falbore 

3-12 Armax and Falbore 

96-00 3-7 guards, select at random using d20. 


5 




Inside, the goods of the store are scattered about on pegs, 
tables, shelves and floor. Before the back door is a 5' x 5' 
barred cubicle around a counter. The cubicle has a small door 
into the store that can be locked. The store bank and records 
are kept here. 

The store has a wide selection of goods that sell for a 25% more 
than the prices listed in the Players Handbook (Lydia can be 
bartered or haggled down to 5% more, but no lower). She has 
four suits of leather armor, four shields, two sets of studded 
leather, one set of chain, eight daggers for hand-to-hand com 
bat, three throwing daggers, one throwing hand axe, thirty 
darts, one hammer, four broadswords, one short sword, six 
teen pairs of boots, seven cloaks, fourteen tunics, sixty flasks 
of oil, a thief's kit, ten tinder boxes, eighty standard rations, a 
hooded lantern, one hundred and fifty candles, and two 
hundred spikes. Inside the cage is the store's bank of 10 + d20 
gp, 30 + dIO ep, 20 + 2d20 sp and 30 + 3d10 cp. 

The door to their home is usually locked. Inside the home, 
under a loose floorboard (treat as a secret door) is a pouch of 8 
pp and 204 gp. 

18. WINERY 

This is a small town winery. Above the door is the symbol of 
three barracuda (this symbol appears on any bottle of wine 
sold). The front of the shop is very small, only 5' x 7'. When the 
front door opens a small bell over the door rings. In the small 
front room are forty bottles of wine labeled with the barracuda 
symbol and the year. Thirty bottles sell for 7 sp, five for 12 sp 
and five for 20 sp. A drape conceals the back room, where 
winemaking is in progress. 


two clerics who sleep upstairs in a single room and four lay 
brothers who sleep in the cellar. The vines grow on the hill 
behind Martin's house, and during the day 2-5 of these charac 
ters will be on the hill tending the vines. 

Eless, cleric (AC 10; MV 12"; C2: hp 10; #AT 1; D by weapon; AL 
LN; 2 10,1 12, W 15, D 13, C 14, Ch 8). Eless wears no armor and 
carries no weapon when he works. He does have a mace and 
shield in the back, and a set of chainmail in his room. His usual 
spells are: 

First level: purify food and drink, create water, bless (x2) 

Grecko, cleric (AC 7; MV 12"; Cl; hp 7; #AT 1; D by weapon; 
AL LN; S 16, I 8, W 13, D 17, C 12, Ch 11). Grecko carries a 
hammer at all times but does not wear armor. He has a shield 
and suit of leather armor in the back room. His spells are: 

First level: create water (x2) 

4 lay brothers (AC 10; MV 12"; NM; hp 3, 4, 5, 6; #AT 1; D as club; 
AL LN; no spells). These are characters learning to be first level 
clerics. None own armor but all have clubs and staves at hand if 
attacked. 

The back room contains the wine press and other equipment 
needed to make and bottle wine. The characters here know 
nothing of the Assassins' Guild. Naturally, they do know the 
staff of the Church, and will defend their good names if neces 
sary. Once a week, Basil, the curate at the Church, takes a 
supply of wine to the castle. This has nothing whatever to do 
with guild activities, of course. 

19. ARMORER'S SHOP 


The small winery is run by the Church of Osprem (3) and the 
three barracuda are a symbol of that deity. The winery employs 



This small 15' x 25' stone building is the workshop of Krak the 
armorer. A small iron-shuttered window is next to the door, 
which is also made of iron. No other windows can be seen. 

Inside, a hearth lies along the back wall near a large anvil and a 
complete set of tools. Two work tables contain bits of scrap 
leather, numerous studs and spikes, and large quantities of 
heavy leather cord. Krak makes both leather and studded 
leather armor. 

Krak, armorer, half-ore (AC -1; MV 12"; F5; hp 42; #AT 1; D by 
weapon; AL NE; S 18/22, I 9, W 8, D 17, C 15, Ch 7). Krak is a 
massive half ore who stands over 6' 4" and weighs 250 lbs. He 
wears chain armor +3. He uses a longsword +2, damage +6 vs. 
lawful good (115, E 19, NE; slay lawful good characters; 
detects lawful good, sloping passages, and elevator rooms; 
levitation; speaks common). 

The blade has a mind of its own, and is 25% likely to scan for 
lawful good characters within 10 feet if it is not performing 
some other function. If it detects any, it will takeover Krak, who 
does not have the intelligence, charisma, and level to oppose 
it. The sword only picks fights that it thinks it can win. The 
sword is worth 8000 gp if turned over to the Church of Osprem. 

Krak enjoys brawling and being rowdy. He will gladly melee at 
the drop of a hat. The armor he makes is of good quality and 
sells for a 25% markup over normal prices. Krak does not 
bargain about the price: take it or leave it. He carries all of his 
money on his parson (2-200 gp). 


20. TAILOR'S SHOP 


This 20' x 20' frame shop is divided into a front and back half by 
a wall with a single curtained doorway in its center. In the front 
of the shop, illuminated by two large windows, is an assort- 


























merit of clothing: eight caps, ten hats, fourteen cloaks, eight 
robes, four girdles, forty tunics, eight dresses and a wide var 
iety of undergarments for men and women. Everything is hung 
on pegs and racks for the customer to look at. A small bell 
above the door rings when a customer enters. 

Ollie, magic-user, elf (AC 8; MV 12"; Ml; hp 5; #AT 1; D 1-3; 
AL CN; S 8, I 16, W 10, D 16, C 15, Ch 4). Ollie the elf is missing 
three fingers from his left hand and has a nasty gash along the 
left side of his face. He moves with a pronounced limp. He 
studied magic and went on an adventure that turned out very 
badly for him. He has had to revert to this profession. If Ollie 
considers someone "unsavory," and this applies to most peo 
ple in town, he will try to charm the customer into buying 
something for an inflated price (300% markup), then tell others 
what a bargain it was! He will never try this if a group is present 
or if the target seems to him to be an adventurer (the DM 
decides this). Otherwise, Ollie's goods sell for plus or minus 
50% of the normal price (this reflects the extensive quality 
range of his goods-50% of normal would be low quality, 
normally worn only by a peasant, while plus 50% would be 
better than average and suitable for all but the most formal 
occasions). 

In his small living quarters he has hidden his treasure of 135 gp 
as well as his book of magic spells. These are hidden beneath 
the floor in a tiny cellar. The trapdoor is under a small rug and 
is treated as a concealed door. In the book are the spells: 

charm person, mending, identify, jump, read magic. 

25. BOATHOUSE 

The boathouse next to the lake is a 35' x 25' wooden structure 
that is 20' tall. It has a small door opening to the street and a 
larger one opening to the small dry dock. Across from the 
boathouse is another wooden structure that has four windows 
and a normal front and back door. This 18' x 24' structure 
appears to be a normal home. 

Beshkar, magic-user (AC 10; MV 12"; M3; hp 9; #AT 1; D by 
weapon; AL; LN; S 10, I 18, W 12, D 13, C 11, Ch 12). She carries 
a dagger and her spells are: 

First level: sleep, magic missile 

Second level: web 

Beshkar normally likes to do small magical researches. She is 
the watchwoman of the boathouse across the street, but the 
duty is light and offers ample free time. If cargo is left in the 
boathouse, a ship's crew may provide additional guards. How 
ever, if they do not, Beshkar's vigil becomes more regular. She 
will wizard lock the street door and put a magic mouth on the 
lakeside door. Otherwise only the wizard lock will be in place. 
Cargo might be sent to Garrotten on occasion but this only a 
monthly event at best-Garrotten is not a seaport. 

In her home, where Beshkar has wizard locked both doors, is 
her book which contains the following spells: detect magic, 
magic missile, read magic, shield, sleep; magic mouth, web, 
wizard lock. The book lies open on a table and is not protected. 

Beshkar is a good friend of the jeweler Ohlatta (29) and will go 
to her aid if she hears a commotion from that home. 

Beshkar's treasure amounts to a few pieces of jewelry valued at 
190 gp; 30 gp for earrings, 20 gp for a silver ring, 40 gp for a 
talisman, and 100 gp for a string of pearls. These are kept in a 
simple box in her bedroom. 

26. CLERIC OF XERBO 

This freshly painted wooden home (18' x 20') has six windows 
and two normal doors. It has a small flower garden nearby. 


Bess, cleric (AC 10; MV 12"; Cl; hp 7; #AT 1; D by weapon; 
AL CN; S 10, I 11, W 14, D 13, C 14, Ch 11). Her husband is a 
fisherman. Her normal spells are: 

First level: cure light wounds (x2), light 

She worships Xerbo, God of Life in the Seas. She is often found 
at the church, or (5% likely) seen cleaning and polishing the 
statue of Xerbo (51) across from her home. She sells cures to 
the town fishermen for 65 gp, but will never withold a cure 
needed to save someone's life (i.e. a character below 1 hit 
point). 

She often goes to the beach (C) with giant crab hunters to 
administer cures if necessary. Bess wears no armor but owns a 
hammer that she wields if necessary. At one time she was part 
of the adventuring party (see 13) and will be loyal if trouble 
arises that affects anyone in that group. 

29. JEWELER AND MONEYCHANGER 

The 30' x 30' stone structure has no windows and has two iron 
doors. Next to the front door is the sign of "Ohlatta, Jeweler 
and Money Changer." 

Ohlatta, illusionist (AC 5; MV 12"; I 4; hp 11; #AT 1; D by 
weapon; AL LN; S 13, I 18, W 13, D 17, C 13, Ch 13). She wears 

bracers of defense AC 8 and carries a dagger +1/+3 vs. larger 
than man-sized opponents and a wand of fear with seven 
charges. She is cautious to the point of paranoia. Her spells 
are: 

First level: color spray, hypnotize, phantasmal force 

Second level: blindness, improved phantasmal force 

She is psionic with a psionic attack/defense strength of 62/62. 
Her attack mode is id insinuation (D), and her defense modes 
are mind blank (F) and mental barrier (H). Her abilities are: 
precognition (at 4th level mastery) 
clairvoyance (at 2nd level mastery) 

Her front door is locked and barred from inside. The door 
opens into a 5' x 5' passage to another iron door that is also 
locked and barred. Thus, characters bypassing the first door 
will find themselves still locked in a 5' x 5' chamber. Ohlatta 
opens the first lock through a small (locked) access hole from 
her cubicle inside the shop. She closes and locks the access 
hole before unbarring the first door. Ohlatta admits only one or 
two customers at a time, and has a small peek hole into the 5' x 
5' room so she can see how many people are present. If more 
than two enter the first chamber she will not open the second 
door. She asks that all weapons be left in the 5' x 5' chamber. 
Those who refuse are asked to leave. Ohlatta always bars the 
first door before unbarring the second. 

Inside the main room, directly in front of the door, is a large 
stone statue, 8' tall, with six arms and 2 heads. The ayes of the 
statue are blue gems valued at 500 gp each. This golem-like 
creation is Ohlatta's major treasure. It is word-activated, but it 
also beset to guard at night when the shop closes and Ohlatta 
goes upstairs to sleep. 

Statue (AC 0: MV 12"; HD 6+6; hp 42; #AT 6; D 3-8; (d6+2); 
SD immune to charm, hold, and normal weapons: XP value 
1,750). 

In the main shop, Ohlatta conducts business from behind a 
locked iron grillwork. She will open the second entrance door 
then move into the "cage" to do business. She will exchange 
coins at a charge of 1%. She will estimate a gem's value at a 
cost of one half of one percent of its value. She will buy gems at 
10% below value and sell them at 10% above. She does not 
barter-her price is either taken or left. She has the following 
supply of coins and gems: 134 pp, 2,460 gp, 2,350 ep, 4,750 sp, 
3,550 cp; 80 gems: 40 x 10 gp, 20 x 25 gp, 10 x 50 gp, 5 x 100 gp, 
1 each of 200 gp, 350 gp, 500 gp, 1000 gp and 2000 gp. 



Ohlatta was a former adventurer (see 13) and has friends she 
can call upon if there is trouble. Her book of spells (unreadable 
by a magic-user) contains: color spray, phantasmal force, 
hypnotize, light, wall of fog, blindness, improved phantasmal 
force, magic mouth, misdirection. 

Her living quarters upstairs contain a simple bedroom and 
kitchen. The stairs are behind the iron grate, of course. The 
back entrance has the same precautions as the front, including 
the grillwork and 5' x 5' antechamber. 

31. WEAVERS' SHOP 

The 25' x 18' single story frame structure houses a weaving 
business that specializes in making and repairing nets. Garrot- 
ten nets are prized all over Lendore Isle and it is for them that 
many a trip and voyage is made. The shop is divided in two, 
with the mending and weaving area in front. Coils of heavy 
hemp and thinner thread and other materials are all over the 
small work room. Needles and a large loom are also present. 

Rollo and Tess, magic-users (AC 10; MV 12"; Ml each: hp 4 
each; #AT 1, D by weapon; AL LN). Both Rollo and Tess have 
no armor and bear only a dagger for defense. Each carries only 
1 -20 sp. Both have decided not to adventure but instead to use 
the magic craft to immediate profit. Thus their knowledge is 
just basic and their spell inventory small. Their spell book 
contains: read magic, unseen servant, mend, identify, light, 
jump. 

Rollo memorizes mending and Tess takes unseen servant 
daily. They do not know much about town politics nor do they 
want adventure. 

32. CAPTAIN QUENEX'S HOUSE 

This 15' x 18' home of wood houses the captain of the local 
fishing squadron. His home is in good repair and boasts a large 
anchor before the door and etchings of leaping dolphins on 
the brightly painted shutters. The door knocker is a brass sea 
horse and a small opening in the door is shaped like a crab. 

Quenex was a member of the adventuring party (see 13). He 
has settled down in this town for awhile but may adventure 
again. He is very loyal to his old party. Everyone in the fishing 
fleet knows him to be a cleric. 

Quenex, cleric (AC 4; MV 12"; C3; hp 19: #AT 1; D by weapon, 
AL CN; S 15, I 14, W 15, D 13, C 16, Ch 10). Quenex wears 
chainmail +1 and bears either a mace or hammer (50/50). lie 
carries a purse of 2-40 ep and has 45 gp hidden in his home. His 
usual spells are: 

First level: cure light wounds (x2), bless, light 

Second level: spiritual hammer, silence 15' r. 

His deity is Xerbo, God of Life in the Seas. Upon his tunic is that 
deity's symbol-a dragon turtle. Quenex does not seek active 
adventure with strangers. Quenex and Bess (see 26) are 
allowed to use the church for services to Xerbo each Friday 
night at 8 PM. 

39. ABANDONED BUILDING 

This 30' x 25' frame building is in poor repair. Some boards 
have fallen off and others have warped. A few of the shutters 
have fallen off or are hanging by a single leather hinge. In this 
building lives the town beggar and fool, Priska. 

Priska, thief (AC 5; MV 12"; T4; hp 18; #AT 1; D by weapon; 
AL LN; S 10, I 13, W 13, D 17, C 11, Ch 6). Under tattered gloves 
he wears a ring of protection +2 and carries two throwing 
daggers in his boot. 


Priska was a member of the adventuring party (see 13) and 
remains loyal to them. He is acknowledged by few in the town 
as anything but a nuisance, though his former party certainly 
knows his real profession. Priska's job for that party is to seek 
out new adventuring "prospects" (for his party only-none of 
these characters will join another party). 

Priska is aware of the Assassins' Guild and knows that one of 
the residents of the inn is an assassin, but he does not know 
which one. Priska may beg outside of the inn. If he sees a lone 
drunken character who does not live in town, he may try to 
pickpocket (ability at 50%). Priska acts the part of an idiot, 
though it might be noted that he seams cleaner than a town 
idiot would normally be. In his home he has hidden a broad 
sword +1 and a purse of 250 gp (treat as secret door for 
chances of finding). 

46. WEAPONSMITH 

The 30' x 25' stone and frame building has an open hearth and 
an anvil at the northwest corner, facing the road. A dwarf works 
there during the day, crafting blunt weapons of various types. 

Gilmi, weaponsmith, dwarf, (AC 2; MV 9"; F4; hp 30; #AT 1; 
D by weapon; AL LE; S 18/18, I 14, W 8, D 10, C 15, Ch 8). Gilmi 
wears plate armor +1 and has a hammer +2 at his side. He 
carries a purse of 1-12 pp and 3-30 gp. 

Gilmi makes the following weapons: flails, hammers, morning 
stars, iron-tipped quarterstaves and sling bullets. He has four 
of each weapon type in stock as well as 100 sling bullets. His 
prices are at a 20% markup over normal. He does not bargain. 

Gilmi is an active spy for the Assassins' Guild. The midget 
assassin Oscar at the inn is his contact; he does not know 
anyone else. He will report interesting strangers to Oscar when 
he has a chance to do so. He will greet any dwarf or gnome he 
meets and act as friendly as possible without revealing his true 
alignment. 

48. ALCHEMIST SHOP 

This 35' x 30' stone building has six small barred windows six 
feet off the ground. The door is made of heavy wood with iron 
borders and hinges. The door is carved in the shape of a 
dragon with an open mouth (note: the dragon is not like any 
particular known type of dragon, nor is the door colored). Next 
to the door is a sign saying, "Hestal the Alchemist, by appoint 
ment only!" 

Hestal's wife answers the door and sets up appointments for 
him. She might also be on duty in the shop or helping him in the 
back room. The appointment fee is 1 gp and will always be for 
the next day. For 3 gp or more, Hestal will suddenly find time to 
leave what he is doing. If he is making another potion at the 
time (35% likely) he must try to finish it before he can do 
anything major for the party! 

Relba, Hestal's wife (AC 10; MV 12"; NM; hp 4; #AT 1; D 1-4; 
AL LN). She has no armor but carries a dagger. In her pocket is 
a small vial with a label that says: "If you find this woman dying 
give her this potion of healing at once." The vial will do 1-4 
points of curing but the character must also save vs. poison or 
sleep for 2-5 days! 

Hestal, alchemist (AC 10; MV 12"; Al; hp 17; #AT 1; D by 
weapon; AL LN; S 8, I 17, W 12, D 14, C 13, Ch 11). He wears no 
armor but carries a dagger. His purse has 1-20 gp. his cloaks 
are all bright colors and decorated at the cuffs and hem with 
embroidery in geometric patterns. These cloaks are each 
worth 100 gp (he owns six of them). 


8 



Hestal does business in the front of the shop in a small 5' X 7' 
room. The back room contains all of his gear, raw materials, 
etc. He employs four apprentices who make pottery and 
glassware for him. Each is a boy between 12 and 15 years of 
age (AC 10; MV 12"; NM; hp 3; #AT nil). None of them are being 
taught alchemy. 

Hestal can identify potions by testing them. Any test is 80% 
accurate and costs 75 gp. Those tests that fail have a 40% 
chance to produce an explosion that will do 1-12 hit points of 
damage to Hestal and anyone with 5 feet. He can create 
potions as a 7th level magic-user (see the DMG), if the proper 
materials are made available. Hestal has NO potions for sale. 
However, he carries a potion of polymorph self on his person at 
all times. 

A staircase leads to his living quarters below. In his bedroom is 
a cache of 440 gp hidden in a secret panel. His book of recipes 
cannot be understood by a non-alchemist. 

Hestal and Relba are withdrawn, unfriendly people. They care 
about their business and nothing else. Hestal will deny any 
knowledge of poisons or of the Assassins' Guild. 

50. GUARD HOUSE 

This 20' x 25' foot stone building is a guard house. Its five 
windows are all barred. The front and rear doors are both 
heavy oak and iron reinforced. The rear window of the guard 
house has a direct line of sight to the stone bridge crossing the 
south branch of the Farmin river. The bridge is just over 800 
feet away. 

Golfig, fighter (AC 3; MV 12"; F3; hp 20; #AT 1; D by weapon, 
AL CN; S 15, I 8, W 9, D 15, C 14, Ch 8). He wears chain and 
shield, and carries a longbow and a longsword. Golfig has 1-20 

gp- 

Tesh, fighter (AC 4; MV 12"; F2; hp 11; #AT 1; D by weapon; 
AL CN; S 13,1 10, W 11, D 13, C 10, Ch 7). Tesh wears chain and 
shield, and carries a longsword and a longbow. He has 1-12gp. 

Hestor, cleric (AC 4; MV 12"; C2; hp 12; #AT 1; D by weapon, 
AL CN; S 10, I 11, W 15, D 13, C 11, Ch 11). He wears chain and 
shield, and carries a flail. He has 1-12 gp and the following 
spells: 

First level: cause fear, cure light wounds, command, 

light 

Hestor is a cleric of Kord (the same god of war worshipped by 
the garrison). As such, his formal duty is lighter so he has a few 
hours for devotion and prayer to his deity. 

The three guards have the daytime duty of patrolling the 
southern section of town. They will stroll up and down the 
streets about every hour, perhaps (5% chance) stopping in any 
shop along their route. It is not their job to question or stop 
travelers, but they are nosy. 

At night they watch the bridge which is the center of a globe of 
continual light. The stone bridge is built very high to allow 
small coastal vessels (barges and small galleys) to pass 
underneath. The 15 foot clearance does not allow sailing boats 
of any type to pass under unless the mast can be removed. 

It is common knowledge that the town is occasionally raided 
from the south by ores from a base somewhere in the Farmin 
mountains. Thus, watching the bridge at night is very impor 
tant. The guards, however, tend to imbibe a bit too much. 
There is a 15% chance that they will be drunk or passed out as 
the night wears on. 


The guards are loyal to the town even more than they are loyal 
to the mayor. As such they can be bribed for a few gold pieces 
(2-5) if and only if they can be convinced that the action is for 
the benefit of the town. They are not in favor of the Assassins' 
Guild because it harms the town's reputation! 

51. STATUE OF XERBO 

A statue of Xerbo, god of the seas. Beneath his statue is the 
phrase "Go forth to the sea in ships to claim its bounty by fair 
means. Feed its monsters or rid the seas of them. This is the 
fortune of the high seas!" 

This translates to: "It's okay to catch fish, if the fish have a 
chance to catch you!" 

52. STATUE OF OSPREM 

A statue of Osprem, Goddess of the Seas and Water Travel. 
Anyone who stops and faces the statue will hear a magical 
voice say "Pause and pray in my temple! The deities of the seas 
would have your praise and your generosity." Those who do 
not heed the voice suffer no consequences. 

There is a 10% chance that 1-2 acolytes or adepts might come 
out to cajole the characters into the temple. The poor box will 
be pointed out to anyone who is enticed inside. 

53. STATUE OF KORD 

This is a statue of Kord, the God of War. Upon the base of the 
statue are etched the words, "Bring not might of arms to the 
door of the fortress lest I strike you down." This threat is not 
idle. Characters passing within 20 feet of this statue on the way 
to the castle with drawn weapons (not including pole arms, 
quarterstaves, and the like that are normally carried un 
sheathed) have a 35% chance to invoke a watcher. 

The watcher will partially materialize as a nine foot tall fighter 
clad in chainmail and a long red cape, holding a giant broads 
word. If all weapons are sheathed, the watcher will vanish. If 
not, the watcher will follow the characters up to the castle. If 
the weapons are still not put away, the watcher will call down a 
small flame strike at a point within 30 feet of the offenders. 

If the weapons are kept drawn, the next bolt of fire will hit one 
of the offenders for 4-48 (4d12) points of damage, half if a 
saving throw vs. spells is made. Only one damaging bolt will be 
called down regardless of the number of weapons drawn. The 
watcher will then vanish. It is apparently impervious to all 
attacks upon it. It can be avoided by not approaching the 
statue or by keeping all weapons sheathed. 

54. DOCK 

The small dock area can harbor ten small row boats. During 
the day, most of these will be out on the lake (area A). There are 
three docks for larger boats; barges or small galleys. Such 
boats travel up and down the coasts, but are not large enough 
to cross a major body of water without extreme peril. Such a 
vessel might arrive on any day (10% chance); it will leave again 
in 2-5 days if it can secure a cargo, on the 6th day for certain if it 
has not. There are no large vessels in town at the start of the 
investigation but the DM may have one arrive during the 
adventure if desired. 


9 



INN: THE HOUSE OF ABRAHAM (Building 2) 


The main inn building is a single story structure with wooden 
upperworks and a stone foundation. In front of the building is 
a large bright green shingle that reads, "House of Abraham: 
Food, Lodging and Ale." In the center of the shingle is a picture 
of a smiling man holding out a large tankard of ale. 

The grounds around the inn contain an old red barn, a corral 
for horses, a small tool shed, and a vegetable garden. A 
number of trees and bushes grow in the area-especially a 
large apple tree covering a small privy behind the inn. 

The House of Abraham will probably become the characters' 
base as they begin their investigations. The inn is a source of 
information as well as a place to stay. It is a site of small 
intrigues; a place to meet townsfolk, passing travelers, and the 
town's "underground." The descriptions of the NPC staff and 
residents are followed by a complete description of the secrets 
and intrigues at the inn. 


Inn Staff 

Abraham d'Farmin, innkeeper (AC 5; MV 12"; F4; hp 25; #AT 1; 
D 1-8+2; SA/SD psionics; AL LN; S 16, I 14, W 18, D 14, C 14, 
Ch 15). Abraham is 42 years old, 5'8," 160 lbs. He has greying 
brown hair, a large waxed moustache, and wears a decorated 
red leather vest over an apron and trousers. On his wrists are 
two plain iron bands (actually bracers of defense AC 5). He 
wears a pair of throwing daggers and keeps a longsword +1 in 
reach. His pockets contain 1-4 gp, 2-20 ep, 3-30 sp and 4-40 cp. 

Abraham is psionic with a strength of 111/111, which means he 
can use his psionic blast on non-psionics only once. His attack 
modes are psionic blast (A), ego whip(C), and id insinuation 
(D). His defense modes are mind blank (F) and mental barrier 
(H). His psionic disciplines are: 

clairaudlence (at 4th level of proficiency) 
detect good/evil (at 2nd level of proficiency: 40% accurate 
for a creature, 5% for exact alignment; 10% for an object) 
His personality and goals are explained in the Intrigue section. 
Read them before playing the inn encounters. 

Glami, barkeeper (AC 7; MV 12"; M3; hp 14; #AT 1; D 1-4 or 
spells; AL LE; S 12, I 16, W 17, D 16, C 15, Ch 13). Glami is 35 
years old, 5'9," 145 lbs. He has long stringy black hair and a full 
beard. His right arm is partially paralyzed and he has a long 
ugly scar on the inside of his forearm. He wears a small silver 
ring on his left hand (ring of protection +1) and carries a 
dagger. His purse has 1-12 gp. Spells: 

First level: shocking grasp, charm person 

Second level: web 

James, serving boy (AC 10; MV 12"; NM; hp 2; #AT 1; D 1-3; 
AL CN). James is 14 years old, 5' 5", 105 lbs., and has long 
blond hair. He is unarmored and carries a knife. He is one of the 
boys who clean up the inn. Glami is teaching him how to tend 
bar and James occasionally waits on tables. 

Balmar, serving boy (AC 7; MV 12"; NM; hp 4; #AT 1; D 1-3; 
AL LN). Balmar is 12 years old, 5' tall, 85 lbs., and has long 
black hair. While unarmored, he is very agile (dexterity 17) and 
carries a knife. He cleans up the inn. Balmar hangs around 
Balmorrow the bard (the Theater) a great deal. 


Falpir, stableboy (AC 10; MV 12"; NM; hp 5; #AT 1; D 1-4; 
AL LN). Falpir is 13 years old, 4' 10", 95 lbs. He has short brown 
hair and carries a dagger. He tends to get into trouble. 

Rillis, barmaid/cook (AC 10: MV 12"; NM: hp 4; #AT 1; D nil, 
AL LN). Rillis is 17 years old, 5' 3", 110 lbs. She has long blond 
hair, is very attractive (charisma 17), and is a bit of a flirt. Rillis 
is a cook and waitress. 

Residents 

Wilfong, thief (AC 7; MV 12"; T3; hp 14; #AT 1; D by weapon; 
AL LN; S 13, I 15, W 15, D 16, C 15, Ch 10). Wilfong is 5' 3" tail, 
110 lbs. He has a small moustache, a trim beard, and medium 
length black hair. Wilfong wears a ring of protection +1 and a 
medallion of ESP, 30'. He has a broadsword and dagger (plus a 
throwing dagger in each boot). He carries d20+10 gp and d20 
+20 sp. In his boot heel is a gem valued at 100 gp. He is a 
professional gambler. 

Philmar, assassin (AC 6; MV 12"; A3; hp 11; #AT 1; D by 
weapon; AL LE; S 13, I 15, W 13, D 16, C 14, Ch 6). Philmar is 5' 
5", 115 lbs. He is about 30 years old and has trimmed black 
hair. He wears leather armor and carries a broadsword and six 
darts. His purse contains 3-30 gp. His cover profession is a 
hunter and dog trainer, though he will refuse offers of 
employment. 

Oscar, midget assassin (AC 7; MV 6"; A3; hp 9: #AT 1; D by 
weapon; AL NE; S 10, I 14, W 13, D 15, C 15, Ch 7). Oscar is 3' 
4", 70 lbs., with a full beard and long brown hair. He wears 
leather armor and uses a short sword or sling. He carries 2-40 
gp. His cover profession is working "at the castle," doing "odd 
jobs." 

"Captain" Basmar, assassin (AC 4; MV 12"; A4; hp 21; #AT 1; 
D by weapon; AL LE; S 13, I 15, W 17, D 16, C 16, Ch 5). Basmar 
is 6' tall, 170 lbs., 30 years old, and has long black hair. He 
carries a broadsword and a dagger +1/+3 vs. good clerics. He 
wears leather armor and a cape of protection +2 (like a cloak of 
protection). Around his neck, but beneath his tunic, he wears a 
necklace of missiles with three gems on it (a 5-dice and two 
3-dice). His purse holds 12 pp and 4-40 gp, His cover profes 
sion is smuggling goods on the lake and river. 

The Intrigues at the Inn 

Abraham is honest and hard working. He is interested in his 
inn, his friends, the town's prosperity, and the rumored Assas 
sins' Guild; in that order. 

His Inn. Abraham is likely to test a party with his psionic 
powers. He likes to know the alignment of people in the inn, but 
does not want to be obvious about it. Anyone who acts suspi 
ciously in front of the innkeeper may also be subject to his 
clairaudience. Anything that might cause a brawl or mayhem 
in the inn will not be allowed. A character who tries to break 
down doors, fight in the common room, or engage in other 
such foolishness will find the innkeeper on the side of the 
disturbed customers. Abraham may send for the guard or may 
join a brawl himself if needed. In a fight, he will use his single 
psionic blast at once if his current psionic strength is at least 
100 . 


10 





His friends. Abraham has three important friends: the high 
priest Harper from the church (3) the theater owner Balmor- 
row (a bard, 4) and Martin (a druid, 5). Abraham will be quick to 
speak in their defense if necessary. If properly approached, he 
will tell party that these people can be trusted. Balmorrow and 
Martin will be especially singled out as characters interested in 
getting rid of the assassins in town. 

The town. Abraham realizes that the town is currently enjoying 
moderate growth. This is due to occasional ships that dock 
here, but more to the money that flows into town from 
unknown sources. That money likely comes from assassina 
tions. Garrotten itself has not been the site of many killings- 
these have occurred elsewhere on the island. 

The Assassins' Guild. Abraham suspects Philmar and Oscar of 
being assassins, since his psionic powers have detected that 
they are evil. He has used clairaudience to listen in below their 
room (see room 15). However, he failed to detect evil on the 
assassin Basmar. Abraham does not suspect him, nor has he 
listened in at Basmar's room. Abraham is, in one way, playing a 
dangerous game. He knows his barkeeper Glami is a spy for 
the mayor. Thus, Abraham will always appear to support the 
mayor openly when Glami is present. (He does NOT know the 
mayor is part of the Assassins' Guild!) 

Glami is no longer an adventurer due to partial paralysis in his 
arm. He still dabbles in the art and his teacher is the mayor 
herself. His book was lost in the adventure that maimed him, 
thus he is dependent upon her for spells. She does not charge 
him anything for reading her book as long as he keeps her 
informed about new people in town. He is clever and will try to 
trick a party into telling him their business without revealing 
that he is really a spy for the mayor. He does not know the 
mayor is part of the guild nor that three assassins stay in the 
inn. If the inn is attacked or if the innkeeper enters melee, 
Glami will support the innkeeper. He does not know of Abra 
ham's psionic powers nor that Philmar, Oscar, and Basmar are 
assassins. 

James, Balmar, Falpir, and Rillis are all loyal to Abraham. They 
know nothing whatsoever about town intrigues or even about 
the residents in the inn. All of them know most customers by 
name and perhaps by business, if this is obvious (they know 
the people from the temple, the jeweler, the town beggar, etc.). 


was left at the murder scene to implicate the innkeeper. If 
Falpir is cleverly questioned by a player character, or if Abra 
ham is arrested, this information may be introduced by the DM. 
Or, perhaps, the assassin may remember this loose end, and 
try to silence Falpir for good. In any event, the party cannot get 
this information by bullying or threatening the boy. 

Wilfong appears nightly in the inn and often sits at the circular 
table in corner. He has a deck of cards (78 in number) that he 
uses for gambling games. Since Wilfong has a medallion of 
ESP, he is a superior gambler. Any characters who play with 
Wilfong will probably lose in the long run. 

Wilfong might attempt his pickpocket ability outside the inn on 
a single character who is (or appears) drunk. He knows better 
than to rob someone in the inn. He is not an assassin but he 
suspects the other three may be. He might sell his suspicions 
for 25 gp or more-he has seen the bandana signal Oscar and 
Philmar use (described later). He has observed that "Captain" 
Basmar doesn't own a boat. 

Three of the inn's permanent residents belong to the Assas 
sins' Guild (Oscar, Philmar, and Basmar). While they do not 
know who murdered the Baron of Restenford, they do know 
that someone from their guild did the job. 

Philmar and Oscar share room 6. They drink sparingly and are 
willing to talk with virtually anyone about anything (except the 
guild!). They do not know who heads the guild, nor do they 
know that the mayor is associated with it. They might (20% 
chance) try to rob someone staying alone in the inn, even 
though this is against guild rules. Remember that Gilmi the 
dwarven weaponsmith is a spy who reports to Oscar. 

Basmar is their guild contact, though they do not openly asso 
ciate with him. When Basmar wants to see them, he ties a 
bandana to their doorknob. He will meet them just outside 
town at the bridge that crosses the river near area D. When 
Oscar and Philmar want to contact him, they slip a copper 
piece under his door. 

Oscar and Philmar are the first contacts for a character who 
wants to hire an assassin. If they are approached with an offer 
they will contact Basmar. Basmar will meet them at the bridge 
to get the details. If the client looks good, Basmar will meet 
meet the character-alone and at the bridge (Oscar and Phil 
mar will be in forest (D) in case of trouble). 


Falpir was duped by the gnome Rogan (see the Castle) into 
stealing one of the buttons from Abraham's vest. The button 


11 























































Basmar's only contact at the castle is Sangster. Basmar does 
not know the boss nor does he know the mayor is connected 
with the guild. He does not even know that Glami is the major's 
spy in the inn. If the party begins to ask too many questions. 
Basmar may arrange for one of them (or a contact) to be 
assassinated. Chances of success are GOOD if the party does 
not post guards or set traps, or fails to find the secret doors in 
their rooms. Alternately, the assassins could import some ruf 
fians from another area to ambush the party during their inves 
tigations. The number, plan, and capabilities of such a group is 
up to the DM. Information gained from such an encounter 
should be minimal. 

Priska, the fool (building 39) may often be encountered near 
the inn. He is not allowed inside, and only his friends in town 
know that he is not what he seems. 

KEY TO THE INN 

An individual room rents for 12 sp per night for the first charac 
ter, and an additional 6 sp for each additional character, thus 
four people in a room would cost 30 sp (3 ep) a night. Weekly 
rates give a flat 20% discount. Further information is posted in 
the main room (8). 

Note: All guest rooms are identical, except as noted in the 
room descriptions. Window bars may be bent at the normal 
chances, and the shutters have a simple latch that can be lifted 
from outside with a thin dagger. Each room has a secret trap 
door under the rug. 


1. GUEST ROOM 


This room has two double beds along the wall farthest from the 
wall. A table with two iron candlesticks and four chairs occu 
pies the center of the room. Near the door is a dresser with an 
iron candlestick and four drawers. The single window is barred 
and has shutters on the inside. A large carpet covers the floor, 
leaving only three inches of floor exposed on each side of the 
room. Under each bed, concealed by the ruffled bedding, is a 
chest for storing personal belongings. 


2. WILFONG'S ROOM (here 45% asleep 50%) 


One of the beds has been moved to the southeast corner of the 
room. (Wilfong has found the trap door under the rug and has 
moved the bed to block it). Both chests are under Wilfong's 
bed, hidden by the bedspread. Both are locked, but neither is 
trapped. They contain clothing, but nothing extraordinary. 
One chest contains a spare card deck. The dresser also con 
tains clothing. The second drawer holds sealing wax, tinder 
and flint, and a spare throwing dagger. On the back of the third 
drawer (these items can be found only if the drawer is 
removed) are 8 individual platinum pieces and a gem valued at 
50 gp. They are stuck in place with sealing wax. The shutters 
have been fitted with a bolt. The window bars lift up and out of 
their sockets easily, and dense bushes lie just below the win 
dow (Wilfong's escape route, if needed). 


1 2 













































3. GUEST ROOM 

Unoccupied. Furnished as room 1. 

4. GUEST ROOM 

Unoccupied. Furnished as room 1. 

5. BASMAR'S ROOM (here 30%, asleep 45%) 

Basmar keeps his door trapped with a hair-trigger crossbow 
aimed at a height of three feet. It will fire when the door is 
opened more than 60° (thus it can easily be bypassed if the 
door is opened just enough to let someone in). 

The trap receives a "to hit" roll (as Basmar, 4th level assassin). 
The bolt does 2-7 points of damage, and the victim must save 
vs. poison at a +2 bonus or take d4 points of damage per round 
for d6+4 rounds. The victim will turn pale and feel sick as soon 
as the saving throw is failed. Note that the crossbow fires down 
the hall, so a miss might hit a character standing behind the 
first target instead. 

The room has normal furnishings. Nothing unusual will stand 
out to casual inspection except the aimed crossbow. This is 
wired to a chair about four feet from the door. 

The chests beneath the beds are empty. The shutter is both 
barred and trapped. A candlestick wired to the bar will be 
knocked over if the bar is moved. If the characters look for 
concealed doors, they will notice a slight bulge under the 
carpet. Basmar has found the secret trap door and rigged a 
lock on this side of it. The door is also barred from below. 

Basmar's dresser contains many types of clothing. The bottom 
drawer contains a disguise kit. In the kit are numerous pieces 
of hair, spirit gum, and six jars of makeup. One of the jars 
contains two applications of Keoghtom's ointment. Another 
contains three applications of the poison used on the cross 
bow bolt. Attached to the underside of the table is a leather 
tube (2" x 18") with a leather cap. Inside are 30 pp and six gems 
each valued at 25 gp. 

6. OSCAR AND PHILMAR'S ROOM (here 20%, asleep 50%) 

The door is trapped with a bucket of whitewash hanging above 
the door. If the door is opened about three inches, the thread 
attached to the balancing bucket can be released so that the 
bucket will not topple on the character walking through. This 
will cause no injury but will mark the victim very clearly. 

The chest of drawers is empty. The chests beneath the beds 
contain clothing and two small makeup cases. One of them 
contains beards and makeup in dwarven style and color. This 
chest contains a battle axe as well. 

Concealed under the rug is the trap door. Oscar and Philmar 
have rigged a lock that causes a slight bulge in the rug. Along 
the edges of the rug have been sewn two pockets. One con 
tains 45 gp and the other contains 20 gp and two gems worth 50 
gp each. 

7. GUEST ROOM 

Unoccupied. Furnished as room 1. 

8. COMMON ROOM 

The 25-foot square main room is lit by four large candle 
chandeliers hanging in the center of the room. Candles also 
burn in the four booths and by the round table in the southwest 
corner. Near the center of the room are four tables with four 
chairs each. Beyond the tables stands a bar with six stools. 


The south wall holds four booths with tall partitions that go to 
the ceiling. Each booth can hold four characters comfortably. 
In the southwest corner is a large round table with eight chairs 
around it. There is a door behind the bar, a door next to the last 
booth and a pair of swinging doors on the north wall. Next to 
the swinging door is a board painted with the following: 

f -HOUSE OF ABRAHAM-, 


Ale 

17 cp 

Meals: noon to 2 2-20 sp 

Beer 

8 cp 

7 PM to 10 PM 2-20 sp 

Mead 

8 sp 


Wine 

9-16 sp 

Rooms: 12 sp + 6 sp per extra guest 


Closed Midnight to Sunrise 


The door behind the bar is always locked while the other doors 
are always open. 

Special circumstances in town, determined by the play of the 
module, may cause NPCs to enter or leave the inn. Random 
visits by NPC groups can be determined by die roll. 

1. Roll d6+1 for the number of NPC groups if it is noon, d8+2 
if it is evening, d4 at all other times except if the inn is 
closed (closed midnight to sunrise). One group will 
always be 2-5 soldiers from the castle. 

2. Roll d% once for each remaining group, dividing the roll by 
2 and rounding up. This gives the number of the building 
the customers are from. If everyone at a building is here, 
out of town, etc., ignore the roll. From 1-4 characters will 
be present from a building (except children, who are not 
allowed in). 

3. Each hour, 1d20 is rolled for each NPC group present. A 
group with a roll under 12 will leave. Those that make it 
stay one more hour. Roll 1d6. If it comes up 1-3 another 
group arrives. (The DM may pre-roll random groups to 
save time during play-do not let this interfere with the 
flow of play.) 

9. KITCHEN (Rillis, 10-3 PM, 5-11 PM) 

The east wall is dominated by a large hearth, cooking pots and 
tools and a large stack of firewood. Next to the door is a table 
covered with jars of spices, sacks of ingredients (flour, sugar, 
salt, etc.), a number of knives and cleavers, and tools of wood 
for mixing and stirring. In the center of the room is a large work 
table which is kept clean when meals are not being served. A 
heavy wooden chest is on the west wall. The barred window 
has shutters but these are open. A candelabra of six candles 
hangs above the work table. 

Rillis is here from 10 AM to 2 PM and from 5 PM to 11 PM. 
James and Balmar will be in and out during these times. Oth 
erwise the room is unoccupied. In the large chest can found a 
number of dead animals, skinned and cleaned. 

10. STORAGE ROOM (Rillis, around 10 AM and 5 PM) 

The room is lined with numerous shelves. The shelves contain 
sacks, jars, kegs, bottles and other containers. The room is lit 
by a single torch in a sconce by the door or by a candle also 
near the entrance on one of the shelves. Just beyond the door 
is a staircase down. 

The containers hold various foodstuffs, spices, raw materials, 
candles, oil, etc. The room is unoccupied except at 10 AM and 
5 PM when Rillis comes in for supplies. 


13 



11. GLAMI'S ROOM (day 5%, awake; night 100%, asleep 85%) 

The room contains a bed on the north wall, a four drawer chest, 
a table and chair topped with a pair of candles. A small mirror 
hangs on the east wall. Below it is a Small table with a single 
drawer. Upon the table is a pitcher inside a washbowl. The 
door to the cellar is not only mechanically locked, it is wizard 
locked (at 3rd level magic use) as well. 

The cabinet contains clothing of the usual sort, but in the 
bottom drawer is a black cloak of the sort worn by magic-user 
(it has numerous all pockets for material components). The 
mirror is ordinary but radiates magic since there is a magic 
mouth on the back of the mirror, if turned around the mouth 
will scream "Thief, Thief!" ten times. Behind the mirror is a 
secret compartment (a loose board) that holds a small sack of 
35 gp, 45 ep and two gems (50 gp and 100 gp). In the back of the 
drawer, a scroll may be found, it contains the spells jump, 
mirror image, and web (at 7th level magic use). 

12. ABRAHAM'S ROOM (night 90%, asleep 90%) 

The large bedroom has a huge double bed in the northeast 
corner. A painting of a tiger hangs next to the bed. Below the 
painting is a chest, in the center of the room there is a padded 
leather chair. The east wall has a shelf containing 20 books. On 
the west wall, a desk sits under the window, whose shutters are 
closed and barred. 

Before entering the locked room, Abraham always uses clair- 
audience for a round to hear if someone is there. The painting 
of the tiger is magical and operates automatically if anyone 
comes within ten feet of the chest. The tiger will roar loudly five 
times and animate. It cannot leave the painting. The locked 
chest contains an array of clothing and concealed below this is 
an iron box. It is a puzzle box-any thief who attempts it (one 
chance only) must roll his or her open locks percent to find the 
solution. The attempt takes d8+4 minutes even if successful, 
inside are 280 gp, 375 ep, and 575 sp. The box cannot be 
broken easily, but hitting it hard enough will break the 
locking puzzle. A non-thief is only allowed a single try to open 
it at 1% per point of intelligence. The books on the shelf are 
ordinary and contain no useful information. 

Note that the bed must be moved and the rug pulled back 
before the secret door down to 14 can be found. The trap door 
is locked, the lock is below the floorboards and must be 
located and then picked. 

13. WINE CELLAR 

The stairs come down to an L-shaped corridor that has two 
doors in it. The corridor is dark, but a torch sconce is located at 
the foot of the stairs next to first door. Inside the small room are 
four large kegs. Along the north wall are shelves holding 100 
wine bottles. The casks hold beer, mead and ale. The bottles 
hold wine, mostly poor quality, but some good wines are also 
present. 

14. STOREROOM 

The room has a large number of crates piled up in the center. 
The walls are bare. In the northeast corner is a ladder going up. 

The crates are marked with the names of ports along the coasts 
of the Great Kingdom and the Iron League. All are also marked 
for this inn. Candles, oil, plates, mugs, blankets, leather, wine, 
etc.-all boxes are accurate and none of the contents are 
exceptional or magical. The ladder leads to a trap door to 
Abraham's room (12). It is locked from above. The secret door 
must be sought, of course. That doorway is three feet high and 
three feet wide. 


15. SECRET CRAWLWAY 

The secret door leads to a long crawlway three feet high and 
three feet wide. Three ladders can be seen going up. Next to 
each ladder is a number: "1," "2," "3." The L-shaped corridor 
leads to ladders 4 through 7. At the top of each ladder is a 
bolted trapdoor to guest rooms 1-7. Doors 2, 5, and 6 are 
locked or held in some way from above. 

The crawlway has seven ladders leading to seven secret trap 
doors into the guest rooms. They are obvious trap doors if seen 
from below, and each is latched. The assassins and Wilfong 
have found their secret doors. The assassins have locked their 
trapdoors from their side so that the doors can no longer be 
opened. Wilfong has moved his bed so that a leg of it is 
squarely on top of the trapdoor, but has not locked it. 

Only the innkeeper might (5%) be found in this crawlway. 
Abraham is not a thief so he will not enter a room. If he tells his 
friend Balmorrow the bard of something suspicious, however, 
the bard would investigate directly. Balmorrow has entered 
rooms of the inn this way before with the permission and 
blessing of the innkeeper. 

16. BARN (Falpir, day 70%) 

The barn is made of wood and has a pair of large front doors. 
The roof is slanted. There is no other entrance. 

The main area has eight stalls for horses. Next to the main 
doors is a stall-sized area holding three saddles, harness, tack 
and saddlebags. At the rear of the barn is a stall-sized area with 
a grain bin filled with hay. The only horse in the barn at this 
time belongs to Abraham. It is a medium war horse (HD 2+2; 
AC 7; MV 18"; hp 15; #AT 3; D 1-6/1-6/1-3). There is nothing 
unusual about the stalls, tack or grain. 

Beyond the stalls is a small room for James, Balmar, and 
Falpir. It contains beds, a table and chairs, and three small 
chests. The boys are here between 12 PM and 8 AM, and are 
95% likely to be asleep. Their chests contain only clothing, and 
Falpir has a small knife under his pillow. Whatever coins the 
boys have, they carry. There is nothing more of interest here. 

17. RILLIS' HUT (here 90%, 2-4 PM or 11-8 AM: asleep 80%) 

This small 15' x 15' building is made of wood and has two 
doors, a small barred window on the east wall, and a gabled 
roof. To enter quietly, the lock on either door can be picked. 
On the north wall are a number of digging tools and two large 
bags of seed. In the southwest corner, there is a bed. A small 
table and chair are beside the bed. Another small table is in 
front of the window which has shutters. 



THE CHURCH OF OSPREM (Building 3) 


The Church of Osprem is the home of the second suspect, 
Harper, the high priest. This area is not detailed because the 
primary action here is the verbal interaction between the 
player characters and the church staff. Briefly: 

Harper is old and senile (which is one reason the Guild doesn't 
regard him as a threat). He is essentially harmless and highly 
eccentric. Harper will cast a spell at the drop of a hat, though 
he will never actually harm anyone. He may glyph a piece of 
cheese he wants for lunch, send someone on a quest for a bar 
of soap, or plane shift away on some caprice. These actions are 
far from lawful but Osprem moves in mysterious ways, and a 
potion of longevity would do much to reverse Harper's condi 
tion, if one could be found. 

Harmin, the canon, really decides church policy. He sees the 
primary responsibility of the the church as protecting the 
waters, and looking after the worshippers of the goddess. He 
will not allow the church to be drawn into intrigues unless it is 
directly threatened. His concern with greater issues and the 
welfare of the clerical staff may make him seem cold and 
bureaucratic to outsiders. 

Basil, the curate, takes care of the actual administration of the 
church grounds. He also spends much of his time looking out 
for Harper and apologizing for Harmin's brusque manner. He 
has much more to do with the smooth operation of the church 
than is obvious at first glance. 

Lothar is the Assassin Guild spy here, posing as the crippled 
groundskeeper. He prefers to stay out of the public eye, since 
his wounds caused the loss of his left ear, his left eye, and left 
him a horrid scar where the left side of his face was mangled by 
a flail. He is high in the Guild hierarchy, and a dangerous 
adversary. He stole the high priest's holy symbol for Tellish, 
and may engineer additional problems for the party. No one 
knows his real purpose, and he will not risk suspicion unless 
the situation is critical. 

Character Details 

Harper, high priest (AC 2; MV 12"; C9: hp 31; #AT 1; D by 
weapon; AL LN; S 9, I 14, W 16, D 10, C 11, Ch 17). Harper is 71 
years old, 5' 10", and 175 lbs. He has long white hair and a full 
flowing beard. His clerical vestments and robes are blue with 
one of the symbols of his deity Osprem, Goddess of Water 
Voyages: three barracuda, a whale, a ship, one or more dol 
phins. He wears bracers of defense AC 2. His weapons are 
either a quarterstaff +1 or a hammer +2. Upon each hand he 
wears a ring (water walking and spell turning). His usual spells 
are: 

First level: bless, cure light wounds, light, purify food 

and water, resist cold, create water 
Second level: augury, find traps, hold person, resist fire, 
silence, speak with animals 
Third level: dispel magic, locate object, (a) 

Fourth level: (b) ,(c) 

Fifth level: (d) 

Harper will pray for the missing spells randomly (roll d8 for 
each random spell prayed for). If a specific request or payment 
has been made roll d12 instead. If d12 comes up the desired 
spell or 9-12, Harper will pray for the correct spell. Otherwise 
the characters have to wait until the next day! 



Third level spells he might pray for: 

1. continual light, 2. continual darkness, 3. cure blindness, 

4. cure disease, 5. prayer, 6. glyph of warding (paralysis), 
7. remove curse, 8. speak with dead. 

Fourth level spell he might pray for: 

1. cure serious wounds, 2. divination, 3. exorcise, 4. mask lie 
(instead of detect lie), 5. lower water, 6. neutralize poison, 
7. speak with plants, 8. tongues. 

Fifth level spell he might pray for: 

1. atonement, 2. commune, 3. flame strike, 4. insect plague, 

5. plane shift, 6. quest, 7. raise dead, 8. true seeing. 

Note: A commune should not be allowed to spoil the mystery. 
Harper may misquote questions, fumble answers, and be 
a lot of fun to run in the process. Harper does not harm others, 
and this includes members of the Assassins' Guild. Also 
remember that Osprem is a sea goddess and doesn't care 
much about what happens on land. 

Harmin, canon (AC -4: MV 12"; C6; hp 43; #AT 1; D by weapon; 
AL LN; S 17, I 12, W 16, D 18, C 16, Ch 15). Harmin wears bright 
golden plate +1 and carries a shield +1. These have a scrolled 
filigree design that incorporates images of ships, dolphins and 
baracuda. Harmin carries a throwing hammer and a flail +2. He 
wears a ring of protection +2 and a ring of free action. Harmin is 
41 years old, 5' 10" tall, and 165 lbs. He has short, brown hair, a 
trim beard but no moustache, and brown eyes. Harmin carries 
a purse of 20 +/- 2-20 gp at all times. His usual spells are: 

First level: cure light wounds, light, darkness, com 

mand, sanctuary 

Second level: hold person (x2), resist fire, spiritual 
hammer, augury 

Third level: dispel magic, prayer 


15 







Basil, curate (AC 2; MV 12"; C4; hp 21; #AT 1; D by weapon; 
AL LN; S 14, I 13, W 15, D 12, C 14, Ch 13). Basil carries a mace 
+1 and wears chain +2 with a normal shield (though it is 
bronzed and filigreed like the canon's). His purse contains 
1-20 gp. His usual spells are: 

First level: bless, cause fear, cure light wounds, light, 

protection from evil 

Second level: hold person, find traps, slow poison 

Lothar, groundskeeper (assassin) (AC 4; MV 12"; A5; hp 24; 
#AT 1; D by weapon; AL LE; S 17, I 13, W 12, D 16, C 15, Ch 5). 
Lothar poses as a fighter who has been maimed in the wars and 
seeks now only a more quiet life. As such he has hired on at the 
church some 15 months ago as a handy man and grounds 
keeper. Lothar wears only leather armor but has a ring of 
protection +2. He carries a broadsword +1 and a throwing axe 
+1 (as well as a throwing dagger in each boot). He has an 
amulet of proof against detection and location. He has told 
everyone he is lawful neutral and the amulet has prevented the 
detection of any evil aura on him. Only Arrness and Tellish 
know that Lothar is in the Guild. 

All of the following nine clerics have #AT 1; D by weapon; 
AL LN. Strength, dexterity, and constitution for all are 7-14. 
Intelligence and charisma are 9-16. Wisdom can be deduced 
from their spell lists. Each carries 3-18 gp. 


Second level adepts: 

Name armor AC hp weapons 

Thyme ch&sh 4 15 hammer, mace 

cause fear, cure light wounds 
Samster ch 5 14 hammer, flail 

command (x2), detect magic 
Wilcox ch&sh 4 13 flail, mace 

darkness, light, purify water 
Pingbo ch 5 12 mace, q.staff 

cure light wounds (x3) 

Bratt ch&sh 4 11 mace +1, hammer 

cure light wounds, detect evil, prot/evil, sanctuary 


First level acolytes: 

Name armor AC hp weapons 

Frunk sl&sh 6 8 mace, hammer 

cure light wounds (x2) 

Alister sl&sh 6 7 flail, q.staff 

bless, detect magic 

Warmen ch&sh 4 7 q.staff, mace 

darkness, detect evil, light 
Latool l&sh 5 5 mace, hammer 

bless, detect good, light 

The Church and Rectory 

See 52, the statue of Osprem, if anyone approaches the church 
building from the front. 

The church is a 20 foot structure with a sharply slanted roof. A 
small bell tower is located at the southeast corner. The stone 
walls of the church join directly to the wall around the church 
grounds. To each side of the main building stand three poplar 
trees, while the church building itself is unadorned except for 
its windows and doors. Along each side of the building, six feet 
above ground level, is a series of eight-foot high, two-foot wide 


stained glass windows. There are three such windows on each 
side, but none in the front or rear of the church building. The 
front doors are made of wood and carved with ships, whales, 
barracuda, and ocean waves. 

In front of the church building there is a sign that denotes 
Tuesday as the night of services to Osprem. Goddess of Water 
Travel (services to Xerbo, God of Life in the Seas, are held 
Friday). The services begin promptly at 8 PM. The sign further 
states that the church is locked from dusk to dawn and all day 
on Saturday and Sunday. During non-church hours persons 
are directed to the side gate. 

The church and rectory grounds are surrounded by a seven 
foot high stone fence. The grounds can be entered through the 
church building itself or through the side entrance. This 
entrance is through an iron grillwork gate south of the main 
building. The gate is locked at midnight and opened at dawn. 
These hours are posted on a small sign nearby. A simple pull 
cord leading to a bell is mounted next to the gate. 

A few grave markers can be seen from the gate. If the church 
yard is entered, other graves can be seen. The graveyard 
extends around and behind the rectory building. The rectory 
itself is a two story structure of stone. It is about sixteen feet tall 
and has a flat roof. Its windows are barred. This is where the 
clerics live and take their meals. 

A small wooden barn stands in the southeast corner of the 
yard. Its a slanted roof rises about nine feet above the ground. 
In the southwest corner of the church grounds is a stone 
mausoleum, about eight feet high. These have no importance 
in this adventure. 

During church hours, the main sanctuary might be occupied 
by Harper (15%), Bess (cleric of Xerbo from building 26, 25%), 
1-4 clerics either praying or working (40%),1-2 townspeople 
(25%), or Lothar sweeping, cleaning, or dusting (45%). Roll for 
each. Either Harmin or Basil will always be in the church office 
(50% chance for either). When off duty, the clerical staff will 
usually be found at the rectory. All will beat the rectory during 
meal hours. 











The other Seul Gods associated with the sea are acknowl 
edged and occasionally worshipped here as well. For example, 
Xerbo, God of Life in the Seas (symbol: dragon turtle) is 
worshipped on Friday evenings. 

Running the Church 


During business hours Harmin or Basil will handle church 
business in an office in the church building. Flarmin will charge 
the standard prices for all spells and services. Fie will not give 
any discounts. Fie will never admit anyone to see the high 
priest, but will say Harper is "too busy," "in prayer," "perform 
ing a ceremony," "resting," etc. Flarmin cannot be bribed or 
bullied to let anyone meet the high priest. 



The curate Basil, on the other hand, will be more reasonable, 
and might arrange an interview. Fie will try to shelter Flarper, 
but under reasonable prodding he will see if the old man can be 
disturbed. If a price for services is agreed on, the payment 
must be made immediately. 

Lothar has secret spy holes into Flarper's office and the main 
sanctuary. Fie will always try to get an ear or eye full and report 
interesting information to the guild. If present, he will quietly 
go to his room soon after a stranger meets the high priest. Fie 
will wait for a period of at least an hour before going to the 
castle. He will never go the castle during daylight hours. He 
always asks for Tellish when he goes to report. 

Harper is a bit senile and eccentric. He has become very forget 
ful and somewhat impetuous in his daily actions. Yet he is the 
only high priest for miles around. No one wants him dead, 
since without him slain characters cannot be raised. When 
officiating at a service he makes numerous small, insignificant 
errors that make Harmin and Basil wince. 

Harper only prays for spells in the morning. He often forgets 
exactly what he has agreed to pray for, but if he prays for the 
proper spell he will remember why it is needed. He always 
forgets to pray for spells not on the above lists (see Flarper). 

Instead of the normal fees, Harper has four big wheels 
mounted on the wall of his office. Each wheel is numbered 0 
through 9. Harper will spin the wheels to fix the price of the 
spell: four wheels for fourth and fifth level spells (0000-9999 
gp), three wheels for second or third level spells (000-999 gp). 
and only two wheels for a first level spell (00-99). The wheels 
set the price for the day-it will not change-until tomorrow. 
(Balancing the books for the church can be very difficult for 
Harmin, who has to make ends meet! In fact, if arrangements 
are made through Harmin, he will charge the standard rate.) 
All payments are in advance, of course. 

Harper will first go to breakfast with his clergy and will then 
cast any requested spell after that meal. Also, each day, he will 
probably (80%) cast his 5th level spell before going to sleep 
though he usually keeps other spells. This effect can often be 
very dramatic if the 5th level spell is flame strike or insect 
plague! He would never use the spell to harm anyone, thus he 
does not bring an insect plague on the crops or flame strike 
some poor soul walking past the church. 

Bodies waiting for a raise dead spelt will be put in a side room 
in the church building. Characters who need curing must 
come back at an appointed time. Sick people may not sit 
around the church and wait for cures! 

Lothar's Room (night 70%; asleep 75%) 

The door is trapped with a crossbow that can be disarmed if the 
door is only opened a few inches. Otherwise it fires at anyone 
in the doorway (attacks as a 3 HD monster, D 1d6+4). 

This small bedroom in the rectory has a cot along the south 
wall. Under it is a flat chest. Two small battered "target" shields 
hang on the south and east walls. No other furniture is in the 
room except a single chair. Behind each shield is a small hole 
that Lothar drilled to listen to the conversations of the adepts 
an acolytes in the next rooms. In his chest of worn clothing is a 
pouch of 175 gp and a throwing dagger in a large sheath. 


17 









THE THEATER OF THE MYSTIC 
CELEBRATION (Building 4) 


In the theater, the player characters may find an ally against 
the Assassins' Guild. As with the Church of Osprem, the 
emphasis here is on character interaction. Balmorrow the 
owner, a bard, has been trying to uncover the guild. Balmorrow 
does not want Garrotten to retain its reputation as a village of 
assassins, but he has not be able to break the hierarchy of the 
Guild and determine who is leader is. He has made little pro 
gress, and does not realize he has attracted the guild's 
attention. 

Balmorrow is very popular with the people of the town. He 
provides, with the inn, one of the few entertainments in the 
small village. For this reason, coupled with Balmorrow's con 
siderable ability to defend himself, the Assassins' Guild has 
made few direct moves to oust him. However, Tellish, the chief 
assassin, is trying to discredit Balmorrow by making it appear 
that he might be an assassin-hoping that some avenging 
character will eliminate him without getting the guild involved. 



Balmorrow's chief friends are the druid Martin and Abraham, 
the innkeeper. Balmorrow is also friendly with Harper, the high 
priest at the church, but doesn't trust the priest's eccentric 
habits. His staff includes Willis and Phillis, an illusionist/ 
magic-user team; Phyllis' familiar, a crow named Black Beauty; 
and three stagehands/thieves named Marvin, Wilbur, and 
Arthur. They are all loyal to him and vice versa. 

Unknown to Balmorrow, Wilbur has fallen in love with Holga, 
the mayor's apprentice and spy (see Castle Residents). She 
convinced him to get one of Balmorrow's golden lute strings, 
which the mayor passed on to Tellish for the assassination. 
Holga doesn't know this, nor does she know about the mayor's 
association with the guild. Wilbur is a complete (if not too 
bright) innocent. He thinks Holga still has this token of his 
affection and considers himself fiercely loyal to Balmorrow. 

Character Details 

Balmorrow, bard (AC 0; MV 24"; F7/T5/B5; hp 66; #AT 3/2; D by 
weapon; SA Charm 30%, Legend Lore 13%; AL CN; S 15, I 16, W 
16, D 17, C 15, Ch 15). He is 40 years old, 5' 10", 175 lbs. and has 
closely cropped brown hair. Balmorrow wears chain +2, a ring 
of protection from charming (6 charges, see NEW MAGIC), 
and boots of speed. His longsword +2 is a guardian blade (see 
NEW MAGIC). His purse contains 4-40 gp. His usual spells are: 
First level: entangle, detect magic, faerie fire 

Second level: charm person or mammal, heat metal 

Winky, blink dog (AC 5; MV 12"; HD 4; hp 30; #AT 1; D 1-6; 
SA from rear 75%; SD teleporting; AL LG). This is Balmorrow's 
pet blink dog. It is totally loyal to him and will not attack him or 
his crew. It will attack anyone alone or unprotected by one of 
the theater crew. It spends most of its time in the house, the 
theater basement, and the secret passage between them. Bal 
morrow sometimes takes it out late at night for walks upon the 
hills outside town. Few people even suspect that Balmorrow 
has a dog and they surely do not know of the dog's magical 
powers! The dog will, if wounded to below 12 hit points, "blink" 
away to sound the alarm. It will bark during melee to rouse 
others. 

Willis, illusionist (AC 6; MV 12"; I 3; hp 8; #AT 1; D by weapon; 
AL LN; S 10, I 17, W 13, D 18, C 13, Ch 15). He is 45 years old, 6' 


1" tall, 165 lbs. and has thinning black hair. He carries a 
dagger. His purse will have 1-12 gp. His spells are: 

First level: change self, color spray 

Second level: ventriloquism 

Phyllis, magic-user (AC 8; MV 12"; M 3; hp 9 or 13*; #AT 1; D by 
weapon; AL LN; S 9, I 17, W 14, D 13, C 13, Ch 16). She is 42 
years old, 5' 5" tall, 110 lbs. and has long black hair. She wears 
a bracers of defense AC 8 and carries a dagger. Her purse has 
2-20 gp. Her usual spells are: 

First level: enlarge, unseen servant 

Second level: rope trick 

*Phyllis has a familiar which adds to her hit points (bringing 
them up to 13) when within 12" of her. 

Black Beauty, crow (AC 7; MV 3715"; HD 1/2; hp 4, #AT nil). 
The crow has been trained to stand guard above their bed. 
when they sleep and thus to warn them if anyone enters their 
room. It also occasionally performs in the show. 

Marvin, Wilbur and Arthur, stagehands/thieves (AC 10/10/8; 
MV 12"; T 1; hp 4, 3, 6; #AT 1; D by weapon; AL CN). Each carries 
2-40 ep. These three young men (aged 15, 16 and 17 respec 
tively) work as stagehands and helpers in the theater. They 
occasionally appear on stage in bit parts and might even 
"work" a crowd that Balmorrow is singing to (with their thiev 
ing abilities)-though Balmorrow does not approve of this. 
Arthur has a dexterity of 16, the rest of the boys have average 
or slightly below average characteristics. 

The Theater 

The theater building itself is of good stone construction. The 
windows are heavily barred (-8% to bend bars chance) and can 
be shuttered. Near the door is a sign that gives the theater 
hours (7-10 PM Weekdays, Closed Saturdays and Sundays, 
Shows at 8 PM, No Admittance after the Show Begins). To the 
side of the theater is a house where the troupe lives. It is also of 
stone construction and has barred windows. 

Inside the theater is a lobby that contains a "cage" booth where 
tickets are sold, a few benches, and doors to the auditorium 
1 8 and a door to Balmorrow's office and the backstage area. The 









auditorium has two rows of five benches, each seating four, for 
a maximum seating capacity of 40. The stage is slightly ele 
vated above the floor (T). and has a large curtain that can be 
drawn between acts. 

The office and backstage area includes two small dressing 
rooms, a prop room, and a wardrobe room. All are unremarka 
ble. Most of these areas, and the stage, have secret trap doors 
to the theater's basement, which is an additional storage area. 
A secret passage connects the theater basement and the 
house. The house is also unremarkable, except that this is 
where Willis and Phillis keep their spell books (well hidden!) 
and that Balmorrow's room is heavily protected. 

Running the Theater 

The entire troupe will beat the theater during the performance 
times. They will all be in the house for meals, which are served 
at 7 AM, noon, and 6 PM. Most weekdays and Saturdays are 
spent in rehearsal or set construction. Balmorrow usually 
spends Sundays alone. 

For shows, the theater opens at 7 PM. One of the boys will sell 
tickets from the locked booth, which contains a strongbox 
holding 1-4 gp and 2d20 + 20 sp. The doors are closed at 8 PM 
and no one is admitted after that. The shows are very 
entertaining. 

Business is conducted in Balmorrow's office. The bard will 
meet a party of up to three, and no more, in his office. His lute 
with the golden strings hangs on the wall here. Balmorrow 
does not know of the attempt to frame him for the killing in 
Restenford. If he finds this out in a direct way he may try to sell 
the names of two assassins to the party seeking the killers of 
the Baron of Restenford. For the sum of 750 gp per name he 
will tell of Oscar and Philmar at the inn! 

As long as Balmorrow thinks the guild might leave him alone, 
he will refuse to be directly involved. He will not risk the lives of 
his friends or his theater and home if he can avoid it. If he does 
take an active part, he will stay behind the scenes as much as 
possible, though he might agree to be lookout or rear guard for 
a specific mission. 


If attacked, the bard will seek escape to muster his friends for a 
full counterattack. In a fight, Balmorrow will offer no quarter 
and will slay a character who is down unless the fight is forced 
in another direction. The DM should use the bard's boots, the 
trapdoors, and various props for effect; Balmorrow is a swash 
buckler in a fight. 

Although the party might connect the use of costumes and 
makeup in the theater with the use of disguises in the assassi 
nation, a close search of the dressing room and wardrobe 
room will reveal that no specific individual in town can be 
exactly duplicated with the materials here. 

If asked whether any of his lute strings were recently replaced 
or removed, Balmorrow will recall that Wilbur accidentally broke 
one about a week ago. (Actually, Wilbur stole it for Holga.) 
Following this clue may lead the characters to Tellish through 
Armess. 

If the players stumble on this, remember that Holga is clever. 
Once she realizes that the lute string was used in an assassina 
tion, she must decide whether to abandon Wilbur or try to 
convince him to flee Garrotten with her (she really likes him!). 
If the latter, he will have to decide whether his fear of assassi 
nation and love for her is stronger than his loyalty to Balmor 
row. The DM should introduce and use this material as desired; 
it can add interest to the story. 

Running the House 

The troupe lives in the small building behind the theater. Like 
the theater, the house is made of good stone construction and 
its windows are heavily barred (-8% from bend bars chances) 
and can be shuttered. No characters will be allowed in here 
unless fully trusted by the bard. 

Willis' and Phyllis' spell books are concealed here: (Willis) 

change self, color spray, dancing lights, hypnotism, phantas 
mal force, invisibility, magic mouth, ventriloquism; (Phyllis) 
enlarge, find familiar, read magic, unseen servant, ventrilo 
quism, ESP, rope trick. 

Balmorrow's room is will protected. The door has a complex 
lock (-8% from open lock abilities). Further, the door is fire- 
trapped (10 points). Just inside the door is an electrical glyph 
of warding (18 points), placed by Harper, the high priest. A 
secret door out of the room is one way only. Inside some 
chests are a fine array of clothing, worth about 1200 gp; tunics, 
cloaks, capes, shoes, hats and cloaks. 

Under the dressing table is an extensive make up kit contain 
ing jars of grease paint whose colors correspond to the flesh 
tones of elves, dwarves, gnomes, goblins, hobgoblins, ores, 
and men. There are also wigs and bits of hair. The kit also has 
pencils, sticks, bits of wax and other materials to create elabo 
rate disguises. Once again, the identities of specific town indi 
viduals can not be created with the materials here. 


19 













THE CASTLE (Building 1) 


The following roster includes all characters who live in the 
castle. Their placement and actions will be given in the KEY TO 
THE CASTLE. Characters who often go on patrols in the town 
are marked with an asterisk (*). The DM should be familiar with 
the castle routine and responses to an alert before trying to run 
an adventure in this area. Also note that the presence of an 
NPC is often decided by a percentile roll. These results may be 
changed or ignored, depending on the outcomes of previous 
encounters. Reasonable story development is more important 
than random roils! 

Castle Residents 

The Lord Mayor, Protector of the Lake, and Her Henchmen 

Arrness, female magic-user (AC 3; MV 12"; M6; hp 25; #AT 1; 
D by weapon; AL special; S 14, I 17, W 13, D 12, C 16, Ch 12). 
She is 45 years old, 5' 4", 120 lbs., with long brown hair and 
blue eyes. Arrness wears bracers of defense AC 7 and a cloak 
of protection +2. She wears a crown with three large gems on it 
(their value is 3,500 gp). The gems confer to the wearer the 
powers of read magic, comprehend languages, and mask 
alignment (the mask alignment power works constantly). She 
carries a normal dagger and six darts. Her usual spells are as 
follows (see her book in room 28 for alternate spells): 

First level: charm person, magic missile, sleep, reduce 

Second level: invisibility, ray of enfeeblement 
Third level: hold person, slow 

Tellish, male dual-class cleric/assassin (AC 0; MV 12" (3") with 
cloak; C/A 5/6; hp 40, #AT 1 or 2; D by weapon; AL LE; S 14, I 
16, W 15, D 17, C 16, Ch 9). He is 38 years old, 5' 10", 155 lbs., 
short brown hair and brown eyes. He wears bracers of defense 
AC 3, and a cloak of ethereal ness with 7 charges (see NEW 
MAGIC). He is generally known only as a cleric, and carries a 
flail +2 in public. When on a job or in his private quarters, he 
prefers a two-weapon attack using his longsword +2 (I 14, E 5; 
detect invisible, locate objects; speaks common) and his 
throwing axe +1. 

First level: cause fear, cure light wounds, command, 

darkness, detect magic 

Second level: hold person, silence 15' rad., find traps, 
augury 

Third level: dispel magic 

Tellish poses as an advisor priest (3rd level). His is actually the 
head of the Assassins' Guild and co-equal with Arrness. Only 
the assassins in the guild of 4th or higher level know his 
profession and his identity. The following five know that he is a 
5th level cleric. 

Ascue, male cleric/fighter, half ore (AC 1; MV 12"; C/F 4/5; 
hp 32; #AT 1; D by weapon; AL LE; S 17, I 13, W 14, D 12, C 11, 
Ch 7. He is 48, 6' 2", 210 lbs., long black hair and full beard, 
black eyes. He carries a battle axe +1 and wears chain +1 and 
shield +2. His usual spells are: 

First level: cure light wounds (x2), command, bless, 

protection from good 
Second level: resist fire, know alignment 

Ascue is Captain of the Guard. Tellish appears to be answera 
ble to him but Tellish is allowed to do as he wills in emergency 
situations. 



Chief Hirelings of the Lord Mayor 


Each bears the title Sergeant of the Guard and is co-equal 
among the troops and hirelings of the castle. 

*Armax, female magic-user (AC 6; MV 12"; M4; hp 14; #AT 1; 
D 1-4; AL LN; S 10, I 17, W 16, D 10, C 11, Ch 14). She is 5' 3", 
120 lbs., 34 years old, brown hair and eyes. She carries a 
normal dagger, bracers of defense AC 6. and a wand of paraly- 
zation with six charges. She carries 2-20 gp and 3-16 sp. Her 
usual spells are: 

First level: charm person, magic missile, shield 

Second level: invisibility, levitate 

She often goes to town and frequently has patrol duty with 
other guards. She is married to Falbore. 

*Falbore, male cleric (AC 2; MV 9"; C 4; hp 16; #AT 1; D by 
weapon; AL LE; S 14, I 13, W 14, D 13, C 11, Ch 14). He is 38 
years old, 5' 9", 160 lbs., black hair, full beard, black eyes. He 




has chain, a shield +2, and uses either a normal flail or a mace. 
His purse contains 2-40 gp, 3-30 ep, and 4-40 sp. His usual 
spells are: 

First level: cure light wounds (x2), light, darkness, 

curse 

Second level: hold person, resist fire 

Falbore is married to Armax. He is also often on patrol. 

*Sangster, male assassin (poses as fighter) (AC 5; MV 12"; A 4; 
hp 20; #AT 1; D by weapon; AL LE; S 14, I 16, W 14, D 15, C 16, 
Ch 12). Sangster is 5' 8", 145 lbs., 40 years old, brown hair, 
clean shaven, brown eyes. He wears leather and carries a 
shield +1. His weapons are a broadsword and throwing 
daggers (four carried). His purse contains 2-20 ep and 3-30 sp. 
Sangster poses as a fighter in town. He knows who Tellish is. 

Gellius, male assassin (poses as fighter) (AC 6; MV 12"; A 3; 
hp 14; #AT 1; D by weapon; AL NE; S 17, I 13, W 15, D 15, C 14, 
Ch 8). Gellius is 38 years old, 6' 1", 200 lbs., black hair, moust 
ache, black eyes. He wears leather armor and a ring of protec 
tion +1. His weapons are a short sword +1 and normal darts (he 
carries a dozen of them). His purse contains 3-30 ep and 4-40 
sp. Gellius poses as a fighter in town. 

The balance of the roster are guards, students, and servants. 
Their ability scores are not given, for the most part, but should 
be considered between 8 and 14 if necessary. Any exceptional 
characteristic, like high strength or dexterity, will be noted. 

Students 

Clerical Students-teacher, Ascue 

Relmak, male cleric, half-ore (AC 4; MV 9"; C 1; hp 7; #AT 1; 
D by weapon: AL LE). He carries a mace and is armored in 
chain and shield. Purse: 2-12 gp, 3-30 sp. Relmak's usual 
spells are: 

First level: cure light wounds, command, light 

Geltuck, male cleric (AC 4; MV 9"; C 1; hp 7; #AT 1: D by 
weapon: AL LE). He carries a flail and is armored in chain and 
shield. Purse: 3-18 ep. Geltuck's usual spells are: 

First level: cure light wounds, command, darkness 

Trell, male cleric (AC 5; MV 9"; C 1; hp 6; #AT 1; D by weapon; 
AL LE). He wears chain armor and carries a flail. Purse: 3-18 
ep. Trell can only carry one spell, usually: 

First level: cause fear 

Assassin Students-teacher, Sangster 

Rogan, male assassin, gnome (AC 5; MV 9"; A 1; hp 7; #AT 1; 
D by weapon; AL LE). He wears leather armor, but has high 
dexterity. He can throw a dagger (carries four) or use a short 
sword. In town he passes as a clean-up boy. With his hair dyed 
and shorn, he can pass as a grubby human boy of about 10 
years or so at a distance of 20' or more. He tricked Falpir into 
getting a button from Abraham. Purse: 2-20 ep. 

Thomas, male assassin (AC 7; MV 12"; Al; hp 4; #AT 1; D by 
weapon: AL CE). He wears leather armor. Thomas can throw 
darts (carries six) or use a broadsword. Purse: 3-30 ep. 

Magic-user Student-teacher, Arrness 

Holga, female magic-user (AC 10; MV 12"; Ml; hp 3; #AT 1; 
D 1-4; AL LE; S 9, I 16, W 15, D 13, C 12, Ch 17). She is 19 years 
old, 5' 2", 105 lbs., blond hair and blue eyes. She wears no 
armor and carries a set of six darts. Her purse has 4-40 gp. 
Holga's usual spell is: 

First level: sleep 


She goes into town, unescorted, as a spy for the mayor. She 
reports all new characters to Arrness directly, who might 
reward her with an extra gold piece or two for excellent infor 
mation. Her relation with Wilbur is explained in the Theater 
section. 


The four servants are normal peasants. They have no armor 
and carry 2-40 sp. 

Zero level NPCs and ores are not literate in any way. They 
cannot read nor write and they cannot draw very well, if at all. If 
questioned, charmed, etc. they will have little useful informa 
tion and what they will tell will be inaccurate, incomplete, or an 
outright lie. 

,-The Castle Guards- 



Class/ 



Combat 




Name Race 

Level AL 

Weapon Bonus Armor AC hp 

1. Thull H 

F2 

LE 

longsword 

longbow 

-/+1 

ch&s 

4 

18 

2. Nelb E 

F2 

LN 

longsword 

longbow 

+1/- 

+1/- 

ch&s 

1 

16 

3. Gorsk 1/2-0 

F2 

NE 

longsword 

javelin 

+1/+3 

+1/+3 

ch&s 

4 13 

4. Tesp D 

FI 

NE 

shortsword 

It crossbow 

-/- 

-/- 

ch&s 

4 

7 

5. Golmar H 

FI 

NE 

shortsword 

longbow 

-/- 

-/- 

-/- 

ch&s 

4 

8 

6. Paulis H 

FI 

NE 

longsword 

ch&s 

2 11 

7. Garm H 

NM 

LN 

longsword 

longbow 


c 

5 

4 

8. Fargo H 

NM 

LN 

halberd 

shortsword 


c 

5 

5 

9. Torp H 

NM 

LN 

spear 

dagger 

longsword 

dagger 

longsword 

It crossbow 


c 

5 

6 

10. Harth H 

NM 

LN 

- 

c 

5 

5 

11. Harp H 

NM 

LN 

- 

sl&s 

6 

6 

12. Trell H 

NM 

LN 

broadsword 
It crossbow 


sl&s 

6 

4 

13. Gorg ore 


LE 

broadsword 

spear 


c 

5 

7 

14. Gulk ore 


LE 

club 

spear 


c 

5 

5 

15. Frag ore 


LE 

club 


c 

5 

8 

16. Kusk ore 


LE 

spear 

club 

- 

sl&s 

6 

5 

17. Borp orce 


LE 

spear 

club 

- 

sl&s 

6 

5 

18. Yuck ore 


LE 

spear 

club 

- 

sl&s 

6 

8 

19. Tresk ore 


LE 

broadsword 

- 

ch&s 

4 

8 

20. Glup 1/2-0 

FI 

LE 

spear 

broadsword 
+1, spear 

+1/+1 

ch&s 

4 

8 


Notes on the guards. Armor types: c = chain, ch&s = chain 
shield, si = studded leather. The first column of the Combat 
Bonus is the ''to hit" bonus, the second is the damage bonus. 
Female characters are in italic. 


Servants 


Name 

occupation/ 

weapon 

AC 

hp 

1. Yelda 

cook 

knife 

10 

3 

2. Gorg 

maid 

dagger 

10 

4 

(half ore) 

3. Torrel 

stable boy 

dagger 

8 

4 

4. Pobo 

clean-up 

nil 

10 

3 


21 



Castle Guard Duty Table 


Castle 

% chance 

No. of 

Area 

Type of party approach: 

Location 

on duty 

Guards 

Watched 

Open 

Concealed 

2 

100% 

1-2 

Road 

100% 

56% 

4,5,6 

30%* 

1-4* 

Road 

60% 

30% 

7a 

25% 

1 

West &North 

80% 

30% 

7b 

25% 

1 

North & East 

80% 

30% 

7c 

25% 

1 

East &South 

80% 

30% 

7d 

25% 

1 

South & West 

80% 

30% 

28 (top) 

15% 

Commander 

All 

65% 

20% 


* At night there is a 10% chance of 1-2 guards. These guards are in addition to the wall guard. 


- Guard Commander Table 

1-4 Ascue 

5 Armax 

6 Falbore 

7 Armax and Falbore 

8 Sangster 

9-10 Gellius 


The castle guard and lookouts 

Guards are positioned at various lookout locations. These are 
specified here so that approaches to the castle can be 
adjudicated. 

None of the windows of the keep or guardhouse gives a view 
over the wall. No guards are posted on the roofs of the keep or 
guardhouse. 

A guard's tour of duty is one circuit of the wall (21 to 40 
minutes). This starts in tower 7a with the return of the old 
guard. The new guard walks to tower 7b, climbs the ladder to 
the top of the tower, and looks around. After 1-4 minutes, the 
guard climbs back down to the catwalk and goes to tower 7c. 
The process is repeated for towers 7c and 7d. At 7d the guard 
backtracks to the small towers, repeating the routine. This 
routine is repeated in rain or snow, sun or darkness. The 
officers of the guard check up on the guards at random 
intervals (at least twice a day). 


KEY TO THE CASTLE 


All castle walls and towers are made of a rough, gray stone. 
The outer curtain wall is twenty feet high and conceals the 
main building. The wall towers are fifteen feet in diameter and 
thirty feet high. The large interior tower is forty-five feet tall. 

The gatehouse is thirty feet high. It has three forward-facing 
arrow slits. The portcullis is down, and the two huge iron- 
reinforced doors behind it are closed. 

If the party observes the castle for awhile, they will see the 
guard walking the curtain wall. Fie enters each small tower and 
climbs to the top, where he pauses for a few minutes to survey 
the countryside, He then moves to the next tower. 

A party as close as the Statue of Kord at 53 is 40% likely to see a 
guard or two on the roof above the gate complex between the 
gatehouse towers. 


A. GATEHOUSE (Areas 1-6) 

1. Entryway 

To enter the castle this way, the outer portcullis must be raised 
and the outer doors opened (the bar holding the outer doors 
and the outer portcullis mechanism are in 2). The inner doors 
are not barred, but are butted against the inner portcullis (the 
inner portcullis mechanism is in 6). If the inner poticullis is up, 
the inner doors can simply be pushed open. There are no 
windows into the gate passage but there is a "murder hole" 
above it that can be opened from 5. 


2. North Winch Room 

A guard is always present and alert. From outside the arrow slit 
is six feet off the ground and is far too narrow for even a thin 
kobold to squeeze through. 

In the south corner of the room are a table and a chair. On the 
table is a large brass bell, a mug and an iron candlestick with a 
partially burned candle. (At night, the candle will be lit.) A large 
wheel that looks like the wheel of a ship is on the south wall. It 
is attached to a large chain and a rachet mechanism. A handle 
on the south wall connects to a thick beam of wood. The arrow 
slit has a firing step in front of it and a wooden shutter to close it 
from the inside. On the north wall, a wooden ladder goes up to 
a trap door in the ceiling. 

The guard will go to the window every 2-5 minutes to look 
down the road. The brass bell is normally tapped once for each 
character approaching the front gate. If rung rapidly and con 
tinuously, it signals an alarm. The winch opens the outer port 
cullis, while the beam is used to bar the outer doors at 1. 

During an alarm, the guard will bar all entrances and defend 
this room. 


3. Weapons Room 

On the south wall is a ladder going up to a trapdoor, in the floor 
near the north wall is an obvious trap door (to 40). Also on the 
north wall is a rack holding a dozen spears. On a table near the 
west door is a large basket holding a dozen arrows and a dozen 
light crossbow bolts. In the front curve of the room are four 
shields, four hammers, a shortbow and a light crossbow. All 
this material looks normal. 

During an alarm, all doors to this room can be barred if neces 
sary. In addition, guards might come here for weapons (40% 
chance for 1-2 guards). 


22 




4. Guardroom 

Areas 4, 5, and 6 might be occupied (30% chance, one roll for 
all). If occupied, 1-4 guards are dispersed in these rooms as the 
DM desires. All doors and trap doors are normally closed, but 
can be barred from the inside as well. 

On the north wall is a narrow door leading to the north catwalk. 
Next to it, a trap door leads to 2 below. In the west curve is an 
arrow slit and beside the slit stand a table and a chair. On the 
table rest a deck of cards, a dagger, and a candlestick. In the 
south wall is a door to 5. 

During an alarm, one or more guards will go to 5 or 6 after 
barring the door to the catwalk and the trap door leading to 2. 

5. Murder Hole Room 

This room has a trap door in the center of the room. It opens 
into a 2' x 2' hole, 16' above the entryway. The room holds six 
large rocks and six spears. A character throwing rocks or 
spears down into the entryway below gains a -4 bonus to his or 
her AC due to good cover. The rocks do 2-12 points of damage. 
The DM may give rock targets a defensive bonus if not directly 
under the hole. 

6. South Winch Room 

This room is identical to the other winch room (2). 

During an alarm, a guard present here will lock himself in and 
await the "all clear" signal (two knocks on the door, repeated 
three times). 

6. OUTER WALL (Area 7) 

The wall is twenty feet high and made of sturdy stone. A 
guard's head can be seen just over the tops of the merlons as 
he walks along. The towers are 30' high and have no arrow slits 
or windows. 

7. Catwalk and Towers 

The catwalk has merlons and a four-foot high parapet. Each 
tower is hollow, with an inside diameter of just over six feet. At 
catwalk level, there are narrow doors to the catwalk, a wooden 
ladder to a trap door at the top of the tower, and a trap door in 
the floor. All doors and trap doors can be barred from inside. 
All ladders are anchored to the tower walls. The lower trapdoor 
and ladder lead to the tower's base. At the base of each tower is 
an arrow door to the inner castle grounds. They are not locked, 
but can be barred from inside. 

Tower 7a has a trap door to the old cellar of the Guardhouse 
(43). This is now used as quarters for the students. Tower 7d 
has an opening to the castle cesspool. A character might come 
to 7d at any hour of the day or night (7% chance for any single 
turn). Roll d% to see who is taking advantage of the facility: 


1-50 

Any guard (of 20; roll at random) 

51-65 

Any student (of 6) 

66-80 

Any servant (of 4) 

81-83 

Arrness 

84-86 

Tellish 

87-89 

Ascue 

90-92 

Arm ax 

93-95 

Falbore 

96-97 

Sangster 

99-00 

Gellius 


The character must arrive from his or her quarters so the DM 
should allow for travel through the courtyard. The door is 
barred from inside if in use. Anyone who enters will knock first, 
just as someone coming in from the trapdoor above would 
knock before entering. 

C. BARN AND KENNEL (Areas 8-9) 

8. Barn 

The main barn is made of wood and stands 12' high. Its roof is 
slanted slightly. It has obvious front and side doors but no 
windows. A small shed can be seen near the front of the barn. 

In the barn are six light war horses and their tack, harness, 
saddles and leather barding (AC 6). It takes 1-4 rounds to 
saddle a horse and 2-8 more rounds to put on the barding. 
Light war horses (AC 7 or 6; MV 24"; HD 2; hp 9, 10, 12, 13, 15, 16; 
#AT 2; D 1-4/1-4). 

The stableboy and clean-up boy (day 40%, night 85%) live in 
the back of the barn. The side door directly enters their small 
7' x 7' room. 

9. Kennel 

The 3' x 5' x 4' lean-to has a permanently open front door 3' 
high. 

Two war dogs live here. They have the run of the courtyard and 
are seldom here (day 10%, night 30%; roll for each dog). If 
present, they will be asleep. Otherwise, roll d4 for each dog to 
find its location: 

1. Along north wall behind the guardhouse or keep. 

2. Along east wall behind keep 

3. Along south wall behind barn or keep 

4. In central courtyard 

War dogs (AC 6; MV 12"; HD 2+2; hp 17, 9; #AT 1; D 2-8; SD 
keen smell and hearing). The dogs cannot smell someone on 
the catwalk. If a dog is near the entrance to the cesspool (7d) it 
will always investigate a character going in or coming out. If a 
dog finds an intruder it will attack at once, barking loudly 
throughout the attack. 

When hired, each guard and servant is brought to the dogs so 
the dogs will know not to attack them. Anyone escorted by a 
guard or servant will not be attacked. The dogs are slightly 
underfed and vicious. 

D. GUARDHOUSE (Rooms 10-12) 

The guardhouse is a two-story structure made of gray stone. It 
has no first floor windows but on each side of the second story 
are barred windows. The roof is flat. The front and side doors 
are iron and are always closed. 

The iron doors are not usually locked, but can be barred from 
inside by iron bars. The windows have inside shutters and each 
is usually open (80% likely). The bars can be bent in the usual 
manner. There is no entrance from above. The basement of the 
guardhouse cannot be entered from inside (that former stair 
case has been sealed-it can be entered from tower 7a, 
however). 

10. Barracks Room 

The room is occupied 90% of the time by 1-6 guards (95% by 
3-6 guards at night). At night the guards will be asleep. 

In the barracks room there are are six beds along the walls of 
the room, and a table and eight chairs in the center. On the 


23 



table are two candlesticks, eight mugs, and eight tin plates. In 
front of each bed is a small, padlocked chest. On the north wall 
is a small hearth along with fireplace tools and some iron pots. 
A set of shelves next to the fireplace hold small kegs and sacks, 
and a few bottles. There is an obvious staircase going up to the 
second floor. 

The iron doors to the outside can be barred from inside, 
though they are normally unbarred. The doors to rooms 11 and 
12 are locked. The back of the stairs is bricked shut (this was a 
stairway down). Each of the six beds is for one of the warriors 
or veterans of the guard. The chests contain clothing and the 
following treasure (the number matches the number of the 
guard on the garrison roster): 1) 20 gp, 2) 84 ep, 3) 18 gp, 4) 28 
ep, 5) three gems worth 10 gp each, 6) 20 gp and one gem. This 
gem is paste but looks real (500 gp). A thief or assassin would 
know it is worthless. The materials on the shelves are food 
stuffs: flour, salt, honey, salted meat, bread, vinegar, and a 
small keg of poor wine. 

During an alarm, one of the guards will bang on an iron pot to 
summon the rest. This banging will be heard in the cellar (40) 
as well. 

11. Gellius' Room (day 75%, asleep 45%; night 100%, asleep 
30%) 

This small bedroom contains a bed, table and chair, chest and 
shelf of ten books There is a torch sconce on the wall by the 
door and a candle on the table. A figure is seated in the chair 
with his back to the door. 

The figure is a dummy filled with a mixture of flour and pepper. 
If it is struck a serious blow (hit vs. AC 10), it will burst, flooding 
the area for five feet with flour and pepper. The striking charac 
ter must save vs. poison or sneeze for 3-18 segments. 

Gellius' chest has a poison needle trap (save vs. poison or take 
3-18 points of damage from the weak poison on the needle). 
Inside is a dagger +1 and three normal throwing daggers. The 
balance of the chest contains an array of clothing including 
tunics, breeches, boots, clogs, slippers, a dress, a cleric's robe 
and a cape. There is a woman's wig and a makeup kit as well. In 
the false top of the chest is a gem valued at 100 gp. The ten 


books are of poems and have no significance. In the binding of 
book 7 is an unlabeled floor plan of the main floor of the castle. 
(You may draw the floor plan and give it to the players.) 

12. Sangster's Room (here 30%, asleep 30%) 

Both doors are usually locked. The doors have complex locks 
that reduce the chance to pick by 8%. The door that leads to the 
hallway is trapped from inside-a spring-fired dagger above 
the door shoots straight down two segments after the door is 
opened more than a few inches, The dagger blade is coated 
with poison. A character who moves into the room upon open 
ing the door is attacked as if by a 4th level fighter. The dagger 
does 1-4 damage and the victim must save vs. poison at -1 or 
take 4-24 points of poison damage as well. The trap is easily 
seen from inside the room. 

The room contains a bed, a table and chair and a chest. On the 
table is an open book and a silver candlestick with three can 
dles. The wall is covered by a hand-drawn map of Garrotten 
and a hand-drawn map of the inn. Neither map has any labels 
or markings. 

In Sangster's chest is an assortment of clothing, two wigs, a 
make up case, some shoes, and a girdle that is heavily paddad 
to make the wearer look about 20 pounds heavier. Beneath the 
chest is a secret compartment. A loose floor brick can be 
removed to find a bag containing 220 gp and a 50 gp gem. The 
bag covers a hole that hides a giant centipede (AC 9; MV 15"; 
HD 1/4; hp 1; MV 15"; #AT 1; D poison only, save at +4) -80% 
chance of surprise unless the character is taking precautions. 
The centipede is fed daily by a careful Sangster. The open 
book discusses methods of ambush. It is not magical. 


13. Ore Barracks 

Ores may be here-day 50% for 1-8, night 70% for 5-8; asleep 
60% if present. 

This large single room contains eight pallets spread around 
randomly. There are four unshuttered windows, one per wall. 
The pallets contain some oddments and bits of clothing but 
nothing of value as they do not trust one another. 


24 











E. KEEP (Areas 14-31) 

The keep is made of gray stone. It is 25' high, but the second 
floor windows are not high enough to overlook the curtain 
wall. The roof is flat and featureless. The balcony is 13' from 
the ground and merlonated. 

If a character observes the keep from various sides before 
entering, additional facts can be learned. The front and rear 
doors are carved with the relief head of a lion that holds an 
ornate door knocker in its mouth. A leap from the east catwalk 
to the balcony might be possible-the distance is 9' and the 
balcony is below the catwalk level. 

All nine windows of the keep are four feet wide and five feet 
high. The iron bars across them are firmly anchored (-8% from 
the bend bars chances). The keep tower has a exit to the 
second floor roof that is 2'x2', barred and padlocked from the 
inside (see 29). The roof is flat and made of stone. 

First Floor of the Keep 

14. Entry Hall 

The front door is made of wood reinforced with iron. Carved in 
relief on the door is the face of a lion holding the door knocker 
in its mouth. There is a magic mouth on the lion that operates 
at the approach of a dwarf, an elf, or a halfling. It will cry out: 
"What are you doing here? Guard! Guardi..." 18 more times! 

At night the door is locked, and during any emergency it is 
barred as well. The chance of breaking the lock is 7% less than 
the bend bars chance; breaking both the lock and the bar is 
18% less than the bend bars chance. 

Inside, the hall has three doors beside the main entrance. A 
guard is also here (day only). In the southeast corner of the 
room is a suit of plate mail armor and halberd. Along the north 
wall are three chairs. On the south wall, between the armor and 
the door, a 2'x3' mirror hangs above a small table. On the table 
are two candlesticks and a brass bell. 

The door to the south room (15) is always locked. The other 
doors are just closed. The suit of armor is badly rusted and 
useless. The halberd is partially cut through and will break if a 
blow is struck with it. The mirror is normal. The candle sticks 
are silver and worth 20 gp total. The bell is rung to announce 
guests (if rung rapidly it raises an alarm). 

Visitors arrive in the company of a guard from the gatehouse, 
who rings the bell to summon the captain of the guard (1 ring) 
or one of the sergeants (2 rings) for normal business. 

15. Corridor 

This hallway is quite dark. The walls are featureless except for 
a torch sconce next to the south door on the west wall. Nor 
mally all doors in the corridor are unlocked. The south door 
can be barred from this side in an emergency. 

18. Kitchen 

The cook will usually (80% chance) be here during the day. A 
maid and clean-up boy will always be present during the meal 
periods (noon and 6 PM). 

On the north wall is a hearth, complete with fireplace tools, 
large pots, and kettles. The north and east walls hold shelves of 
supplies. By the west wall, under the window, is a large work 
ing table. It is littered with utensils and numerous jars (spices, 
about 20). Next to the table is a large knife rack holding various 
blades, including a meat cleaver. None of this is very valuable 
or useful to the players. 


17. Back Entry way 

The back door is carved with the face of a lion that holds a door 
knocker in its mouth. If a dwarf, gnome, elf or halfing stands in 
front of the door it belches a 10' lightning bolt for 3d4 damage 
(no save). This trap only works once per hour. The door is 
locked and barred at all times. 

The room contains a staircase going down along the west wall 
and two large barrels with spigots in the northeast corner. 

This entryway leads to the kitchen. The barrels contain water. 
The door to the kitchen is not locked and this area is normally 
empty with the only usual traffic being servants. However, 
Arrness, Tellish, Armax, or Falbore may use it to go the rooms 
below. The stairs have an fire glyph of warding (10 points). All 
servants and those named know of the glyph and its name so 
they can bypass it. 

18. Reception Room 

On the east wall is a stone dais of three steps. Atop the highest 
step is a large, highly decorated wooden chair. Two smaller 
chairs sit on the next step down from the large chair. The dais 
itself is six feet wide and five feet deep, with the chairs standing 
along the back wail. The north and south walls are hung with 
tapestries of woodland scenes. 

The chairs are for Arrness (Lord Mayor-center chair), Tellish 
("Priest/advisor"-right chair), and Ascue (Captain of the 
Guard-left chair). At least one of the three will be present if 
an audience is being given. Roll d%: 


1-40 All three 

41-60 Arrness only 

61-90 Ascue only 

91-00 Tellish only 

Circumstance or a particular request for an audience may alter 
this. 

The dais is magical. Upon the command "FIRE" from someone 
in one of the chairs, everyone on the dais becomes immune to 
fire as long as they remain on the dais. The dais itself will begin 
to flame instantly. Anyone moving onto the dais after this will 
take 3d4 damage per round from the flames, no saving throw; 
and items exposed to the three foot flames must save vs. 
magical fire. The dais will flame for seven rounds, but cannot 
be activated again for a full day. 

There is nothing special about the tapestries though they have 
a value of 85 gp. Both tapestries conceal maps. Neither map is 
labeled in any way. Behind the north tapestry is a map of the 
town of Restenford. Behind the south tapestry is a map of the 
ground floor of Restenford Castle. (Characters familiar with 
the castle, such as those who played in module LI, will recog 
nize them if they find the maps here.) 

19. Dining Room 

If a meal is in progress, roll for those present: Arrness (90%), 
Tellish (85%), Ascue (65%), Falbore and Armax (70%- 
together only), Sangster (50%), Gellius (45%), students (80%, 
for 1-6). Otherwise the room is unoccupied. 

This room has a large wooden table with eight chairs around it. 
On the table are two large candelabras holding four candles 
each. In the northeast corner stands a large upright cabinet. In 
the southwest corner is a suit of armor with a spear. Between 
the armor and the south door is a 3'x5' mirror. Six extra chairs 
line the west wall. 


25 



The mirror is hung so that anyone sitting at the head of the 
table (north) can observe the north door. The candelabras are 
worth 150 gp each. The cabinet is magical and trapped. Its 
door is protected by a fire glyph of warding (10 points). 
Within are silver serving pieces valued at 550 gp. Magic can be 
detected from the armor due to the scroll (shocking grasp, 
web; 8th level magic use) stored inside the breastplate. The 
armor and spear are otherwise normal. The doors to the room 
can be barred from inside. Meals are served at noon and 6 PM 
for the high level characters and their students. About an hour 
before and after these times servants will be in and out of the 
room. 

20. Chapel 

The chapel may be occupied by Ascue (40%), Tellish (40%) or 
lower clergy (30%, 1 -3 present). 

All five clerics know of the secret door to the tower. The door to 
this room is usually unlocked but it can be barred from inside. 

The chapel is dominated by a statue of Kord the God of War of 
the Seul Peoples. Kord is a massive character dressed in heavy 
gauntlets, a wide girdle, and large boots, lie bears a red 
(painted) sword. Kord is worshipped among by the Seul Peo 
ples by fighters of all types, but more by chaotics. Upon the 
altar there are two candlesticks valued at 200 gp each as well as 
a large dagger encrusted with gems. The altar is backed by a 
full length curtain of bright red that goes from wall to wall and 
floor to ceiling. In the center of the room and in front of the 
altar, a two-inch diameter crystal of many facets lies upon a 
three-inch diameter pedestal. The crystal radiates many colors 
around the room as light from the pedestal comes up through 
it. There are no chairs or other ornamentation in the room. 

A detect magic spell will reveal emanations from the altar and 
the pedestal. The dagger is magical and evil. The crystal is not 
magic (however, it is worth 300 gp). The light comes from a 
small magical gem below the crystal that sheds light. The light 
shining through the crystal creates the colors. The dagger is a 
ceremonial dagger +2, triple damage vs. lawful good clerics 
(I 16, E 12; aligned LE). Any character who is not lawful evil 
who picks it up takes 12 points of damage, no save; and clerics 
who are lawful good take 24 points (gp value: 3500 if turned in 
to a good or neutral church). The candlesticks may be taken 
without reprisal. 

The full length curtain hides the curve of the tower wall and any 
use of the secret door to area 17. 

21. Tower Base 

This small circular room is the lowest level of the keep tower. It 
has a two-by-four to bar the door, ladder going up to 29, and a 
spear. 

The rear door to the temple is secret from both sides. The spear 
is normal. The wooden ladder upward is anchored to the wall. 

22. Ascue's Room 

This is the room of the half-ore captain of the guard, Ascue 
(day 30%. night 45%; lightly asleep 60%). His battle axe, 
chainmail and shield are near his bed when he sleeps (though 
he may grab the broadswords there as well!). 

Flanking the north door (to 15) are ebony statues of two leo 
pards sitting upon their haunches. This ample room also con 
tains a large bed along the east wall, with a pair of crossed 
broadswords above the headboard. Next to the bed is a table 
decked with a candle, flint and steel, a flask, and a mug. On the 
west wall is a large upright cabinet and an iron-bound, pad 


locked chest. In front of a barred window in the south wall is a 
table and a single chair. The window can be shuttered from 
inside. 

The leopard statues are magical and evil. If a good character 
passes between them, or if they hear the word "KILL," they will 
animate, attacking a good character if possible or a neutral one 
otherwise. They will not attack an evil character even if com 
manded to do so. 

Leopard statues (AC 3; MV 15"; HD 5; hp 30 each; #AT 3; 
D 1-3/1-3/1-6; SA Rear claws for 1-4/1-4: SD immune to hold, 
charm, and poison). In a melee, Ascue will animate the leo 
pards and try to escape into the tower (17) and get rein 
forcements. 

The broadswords are trapped so that if one is removed, the 
other will fall. The character removing one would have avoid 
being surprised, then score a missile hit against AC 5 to catch 
the falling sword. This trap can be detected and removed 
normally. 

The flask of liquid is brandy. The cabinet contains clothing and 
a spare set of normal chain armor. Two throwing daggers are 
on the inside of the door. The chest holds a sack of 35 gp and 
88 ep. Concealed under the seat of the chair are four gems (150 
gp each) that have been stuck into place with candle wax. 

23. Stairwell 

This area is illuminated by a large candle burning on a small 
table just in front of the window. 

All doors to and from this area are kept locked. The candle 
burns for 12 hours and is a signal. If it is unlit at night, it is the 
signal to raise a quiet alarm. Guards will quietly go to both 
outside doors while someone climbs to the balcony to awaken 
Tellish or Armess by rapping lightly on doors or windows. The 
candle is replaced each night. 

24. Tower Room 

A ladder bolted to the south wall rises to a trap door above. 
This level contains a spear rack holding 8 spears and four 
throwing daggers. The trap door from below can be barred. 

The door to room 25 is trapped (see 25). 

Second Floor of the Keep 

25. Tellish's Bedroom 

Tellish is seldom here (day 2%, night 45%; alone and asleep if 
present). 

The lock of the north door is trapped with a poisoned needle. 
Failure to bypass this means the victim must save vs. poison or 
take 2-7 points of damage. Also, the victim's dexterity decreases 
at two points per round until the character collapses at 0. Such 
a collapse will last for 2-8 turns unless the poison is neutral 
ized. The doorway itself is protected by a fire glyph of ward 
ing (10 points) and the dragon statuette on the north wall. 

The southeast door to the tower (29) is also trapped. A thief 
cannot find the trap from the tower side until the door is 
opened a few inches. If an inspection is then made the trap may 
be found. A large spiked iron ball is suspended from the ceil 
ing. The ball will be released and will swing into the open 
doorway as the door is opened. It does 4-16 hit points of 
damage and the victim must save vs. poison or take 2-7 points 
of additional damage and lose 2 points of dexterity each round 
until a collapse occurs at 0. The collapse lasts 2-8 turns. From 
inside the room, the trap can easily be seen and disarmed. 


26 



The east door (to Arrness' room) is wizard locked. Tellish can 
only go through if she lets him in or if he uses his cloak of 
etherealness. 

On the west wall is a large bed. Along the south wall, a desk and 
chair stand before a window with iron shutters (these are 
closed at night). On the east wall, two large padded chairs face 
a small hearth. Between them is a small table with a bottle of 
liquid on it. By the north door is a statue of a hobgoblin in full 
scale armor with shield and spear. Also, a small altar on the 
north wall holds two brass candlesticks, a statue of a red 
dragon (about 1 foot tall) and a golden chalice. The room has a 
large red carpet on the floor that extends from wall to wall. 

The bed is normal. Beneath it are a pair of throwing daggers 
and a broadsword. The hobgoblin statue is normal, though the 
spear is real and can be used. The desk contains tax records of 
the town, plus quills, ink, vellum, sealing wax, and a brass seal 
of the town of Garrotten. 

Beneath the right chair by the hearth is a purse of 45 gp and 75 
ep. The bottle of liquid on the table is laced with a strong 
sleeping aid. Drinking any of it will require a saving throw vs. 
poison each round for three rounds. Failing any roll puts the 
victim into a deep sleep for 2-7 hours. A character who has at 
least two hit points left can be awakened by slapping, etc., that 
will inflict one point of damage. 

The items on the altar do not radiate evil. The dragon statue 
does radiate magic. If a good character comes within 10' of it, 
the statue will animate, turn its head as necessary, and breathe 
a 20' x 5' cone of flame. The two northern doors are within 10' 
of the statue. 

Dragon Statue (AC 2; hp 18; #AT 1 breath; D 3-18, half if save 
vs. breath). If the save is failed, exposed items must save vs. 
magical fire. The dragon can breath three times, then takes 


one full day to rekindle its internal flames. Someone against 
the south wall cannot be hit by the breath. The symbol above 
the altar is worth 200 gp. The golden chalice is and gem 
encrusted (250 gp). 

Note: Tellish enters the room from 29 (the tower). He opens 
the door a few inches, disarms the trap, then enters. In emer 
gencies he may enter using his cloak. 

26. Tellish's Inner Sanctum (here 10%) 

Both windows in this room have iron shutters and bars. In front 
of the north window are a large table and a chair. Next to the 
table is a large upright cabinet, and beside the cabinet is a 
large chest. On the west wall is a series of eight roughly carved 
heads. Each wears a wig, and some also have beards or mous 
taches. One wig is very long and rests upon a female head. 

The windows are closed at night, barred and locked in place. 
The door is trapped. The table in front of the window has a 
single drawer. Inside is a very complete disguise kit: tweezers, 
pencils, waxes, unguents, dyes, powders, etc. 

In the upright cabinet is a wide selection of clothing, including 
a peasant woman's dress. Three outfits are of special note. A 
vest of decorated red leather is identical to one worn by the 
innkeeper. An outfit consisting of tunic, trousers, belt, and 
sword look like clothes often worn by Balmorrow at the 
theater. Finally, there is a blue robe with three barracuda on it 
like the one worn by the high priest Harper at the temple. Three 
of the wigs and appropriate facial hair also match those of the 
innkeeper, the bard, and the high priest. The chest, which is 
unlocked, contains a suit of battered scale armor, a shield, 
some weapons (dagger, broadsword, light crossbow, hand 
axe, battle axe and mace) and a worn set of studded leather 
armor. None are magical and all are old but serviceable. Under 
the studs of the leather armor, 85 studs in all, can be found 






some gems. The gems include: 45 x 10 gp, 20 x 25 gp, 10 x 50 
gp, 5 x 100 gp and 5 x 200 gp for a total of 2950 in gp! The studs 
are set firmly and each gem is padded so it will not rattle. 

Under the table by the window can be found Tellish's sword 
and hand axe (his flail if he is not playing his clerical role). The 
weapons are stored inside a locked, lead-lined secret com 
partment. 

27. Arrness' Bedroom 

Both doors into this bedroom are wizard locked at the 6th level 
of magic use. Arrness may be here (day 5%, night 70%; asleep 
55% at night, otherwise Tellish will be present). 

In the southwest corner is a large ornate canopied bed, while a 
tapestry hangs across the southeast curve. Against the east 
wall stands an upright wardrobe cabinet of fine wood. On the 
west wall, at the foot of the bed near the door, stands a covered 
table and a chair. On the north wall hangs a large mirror 
flanked by golden candle sconces that hold three candles 
each. A raven sits on a perch near the center of the room. 

The raven is not a familiar, but a trained bird (AC 7; hp 3; #AT nil). 

It can speak and will say "welcome" to anyone coming into the 
room. The only other phrases it knows are "not yet" and "almost 
dear." The bird is not chained and can fly around the room. 

The bed is covered with fine silk. The pillows and mattress are 
of down. Hidden beneath the bed is a cage in which Arrness 
keeps a large spider (AC 8; MV 15"; HD 1 +1; #AT 1; D 1 + 
poison, save at +2). The cage door is held by a thread attached 
to the bed ruffle, which hangs to the floor. Thus lifting the ruffle 
without looking for traps will open the cage and release the 
spider. Arrness wears a scent that the spider finds repulsive so 
it will never attack her. 

The cabinet contains some fine dresses and expensive 
clothing (250 gp total, but resale is unlikely). The bottom of 
the cabinet contains boots, shoes, sandals and clogs. On top 
of the cabinet is a dagger. This can be reached by anyone at 
least 5' tall and can be seen by someone 6'3" or taller by just 
looking. 

The tapestry on the wall depicts a hillside covered with scam 
pering nymphs and satyrs (250 gp value). The mirror, candle 
sconces, and candles are normal. 

The covered table has three drawers. The chair is ordinary. In 
the top drawer is a batch of jewelry: four lengths of pearls, a 
tiara, four pairs of earrings, six silver rings, four pendants, and 
five brooches (100 gp total). There is also a small bottle of 
perfume that repels large spiders (50 gp value to those who 
don't know its special use). The second drawer is trapped with 
a packet of dust of sneezing and choking. Those caught in the 
20 foot diameter of the exploding packet must save vs. poison 
or die. Those who save will be disabled for 5-20 rounds. In the 
drawer is a wax lemon. In the bottom drawer are a number of 
silk handkerchiefs and a few pairs of gloves. 


28. Antechamber 

The stairway door is always locked and wizard locked. The 
door to the balcony is also locked. The window is barred and 
shuttered if no one is present. The room contains two large 
padded chairs, a large table and a wooden chair. On the east 
wall is a tapestry of a castle landscape (worth 200 gp). 

The door from the balcony has a magic mouth on the outside 
that operates if anyone but Tellish or Arrness comes within five 
feet of the door. (Actually, it operates unless a keyword is 
given, but only Tellish and Arrness know it.) The mouth will 


scream: "Attack! We are being invaded! Everyone to his post! 
Kill them! Here, on the balcony! Help me!" 

Note the small secret closet next to the door to the stairs. 
Arrness firetrapped this door (using a scroll) so she can pass 
through it without harm. Anyone else will take 1-4+8 points of 
damage. Inside the closet is a coffer containing 140 gp, 430 ep, 
and 800 sp. Her real jewelry is also here: three strands of pearls 
(100 gp, 150 gp, 200 gp), two pendants (150 gp, 200 gp) and 
four jeweled gold rings (100 gp, 150 gp, 175 gp, 250 gp). 
Arrness also has her spell book concealed here. It contains: 
detect magic, charm person, enlarge, magic missile, read 
magic, shield, shocking grasp, sleep; invisibility, magic mouth, 
ray of enfeeblement, web, wizard lock; dispel magic, fly, hold 
person, slow. 

Beneath one of the padded chairs is a scroll of sleep, shield, 
and shocking grasp at 7th level magic use. 

29. Balcony 

The balcony is empty except for two huge, covered clay jars 
standing in the northeast and northwest corners of the bal 
cony. Each is four feet in height and two feet in diameter. 

Inside each jar are four dozen arrows. Guarding the balcony 
are two invisible zombies created by Tellish and Arrness. Their 
attack upon intruders is very likely to come by surprise! 

Zombies (AC 8; MV 6"; HD 2; hp 9, 14; #AT 1, D 1-8, SD immune 
to sleep, charm, hold, and cold-based spells). 

Upper Floors of the Keep 

The keep's tower rises two stories above the second floor. 
These will be referred to by floor. 

30. Third Floor 

The ladder is bolted to the wall. The trapdoor down can be 
barred from here. Inside this room are a table, two chairs, and a 
candle holder. An open box of two dozen candles lies on the 
floor. On the table are a mug and a plate. 

An invisible zombie guards this room (AC 8; MV 6"; HD 2; 
hp 15; #AT 1; D 1-8; SD immune to sleep, charm, hold, and 
cold-based spells). It will not attack Tellish, Arrness, or any 
guard commander. 

31. Fourth Floor 

The ladder is bolted to the wall. The trap door to the third floor 
can be barred. The trap door to the roof is bolted and locked. 
Inside the room are a table and chair, ink, parchment, quills, 
strange instruments, and odd-looking charts. 

These are Arrness' researches on the movements of stars. 
They are useless to characters, though some NPCs, like Pel- 
Itar, will pay up to 200 gp for the lot. Hidden in the wall behind 
the ladder at a height of 10' is a secret compartment. A small 
box inside contains a ring of feather falling and a necklace of 
missiles with three gemstones remaining (a 3-dice, a 5-dice, 
and a 7-dice missile). 

Arrness does not wear the necklace since she knows that if the 
necklace fails its saving throw vs. any magical fire all three 
missiles would detonate at once. If there is trouble, she or 
Tellish might risk this and go to the roof where they could 
throw the missiles down upon attackers. Neither Arrness nor 
Tellish would think twice about blowing up a guard or student 
with an intruder. They might (50%) withhold a missile if a major 
henchman is involved. They would never risk each other in this 
manner. If being followed up the tower, either might throw a 


28 



missile down an open trap door (and close the door fast to 
avoid the blast!). 

F. THE LOWER LEVEL (Areas 32-46) 

32. Maid and Cook's Quarters 

The maid and cook are here (95% chance) except an hour 
before to an hour after meals. 

The room contains two beds and two chests. In the chests are 
clothes of simple manufacture. Most are worn and patched, 
though all are clean. There is nothing of value here. 

33. Main Treasure Room 

The door is made of iron and cannot be opened by force. It has 
a pair of locks, each of which is complex (minus 9% from a 
thief's chance to pick). Just inside the door on the floor is a fire 
glyph of warding (20 points of damage-placed by an approp 
riate level high priest). 

The room is lit by a dull yellow glow. Each of the four large 
chests in this room has a large padlock, and a built-in lock as 
well. All four chests are bound in iron and are 5' x 4' x 3' in size. 
In the center of the room is a large table and a book. The book 
contains some strange marks and notes which are not part of 
any recognizable language. 

The table is ordinary. The book notes contents of the chests, 
but in a complex code that would take a minimum of four days 
to crack. 

Chest 1. Neither lock is trapped. Inside are 108 pp and 1,330 
gp. Mixed into the loose coins is a silver ring of weakness. 

Chest 2. Neither lock is trapped but both are complex (-4% 
from a thief's chance to pick a lock). Inside are 3,440 ep. 

Chest 3. The padlock is trapped with a poison needle, save vs. 
poison or die at once. The lock on the chest is not trapped. 
Inside are 4,550 sp. The false top of the chest holds twenty 
gems: 8 x 50 gp, 8 x 100 gp and 4 x 250 gp. 

Chest 4. Neither lock is special. The chest holds chainmail +2, 
a flail +1, a mace +1, six light crossbow bolts +2, and four 
potions (extra-healing, growth, flying, and invisibility). 

34. Falbore's and Armax's Room 

This is the bedroom of Falbore the cleric and his wife Armax 
the magic-user (day 30%, 30% that only one will be present; 
night 80% both present, 70% asleep). 

This room contains a large double bed covered by a large 
black fur. On either side of the bed is a small table. The one to 
the right has a candle, a cup, and a bottle on it. The left table 
has a spherical-shaped clay pot with four spouts and metal lid. 
On either wall is a large wardrobe cabinet. On the north wall is 
a 2' x 3' mirror. The ceiling of the room has been painted an 
off-while color. There is a small fur rug in the shape of a 
leopard in front of the door. A table of fine polished wood and 
two well-made chairs finish the room. 

Two floor stones have been removed under the leopard skin 
rug, so someone stepping on the rug will fall or trip. The hole is 
three feet deep, it is not trapped in any way. The bed is filled 
with feathers. There is nothing under it. The fur is made up of 
the skins of four black bears but is only worth 75 gp. The bottle 
of liquid beside the bed is a potion of gaseous form. The 
four-spout pot is used for incense. A drawer in the table con 
tains twelve blocks of incense. 


The right wardrobe contains women's clothing of various 
types and styles. None of the garments are of exceptional 
quality but none are cheap either. There is a box on the top 
shelf that holds two strands of pearls (45 gp and 80 gp), two 
pairs of earrings (30 gp and 80 gp) and two brooches (50 gp 
and 120 gp). The back of the cabinet is false and inside its 
secret compartment hangs a blue cloak. Behind the cloak 
hangs a belt and a dagger +1, +3 vs. demi-humans. 

The cabinet on the left wall contains men's clothing and two 
vestments that show the symbol of Kord, God of War. On the 
top shelf of the cabinet is a coffer holding 11 pp, 92 gp and 140 
ep. In the back of the cabinet is a normal mace. Beneath the 
table, held somewhat loosely by candle wax, is a wand of 
paralyzation with 4 charges. Near the other end of the table is a 
scroll case that holds a scroll of cure serious wounds. 


35. Laboratory 

The door to the room is locked at all times. Arrness and Tellish 
have keys. 

This large room has numerous shelves all along the south wall 
upon which there are 500 bottles of liquid and 500 containers. 
The containers hold alchemical supplies. All bottles have lab 
els and are tightly stoppered and sealed with wax. Two large 
work tables in the center of the room contain a scale, alembics, 
jars, beakers, hot plates, candles, tweezers, vials, etc. On the 
north wall is a hearth with fireplace tools. 

None of the bottles or jars are magical, though six contain 
acids that will do 2-5 points of damage if poured on exposed 
flesh. The bottles are so thick, however, that they will not break 
upon impact unless they fail a saving throw of 11. They are 
heavy enough to do 1 -3 points of damage to an unarmored 
character. The jars will prove to be dusty and unused-Arrness 
has little time for research these days. The secret door leads to 
a long passage that goes to the outside. 


36. Secret Passage 

A dark corridor just over sixty feet long can be seen with a 
torch or other light source. The corridor is four feet wide and 
seven feet high. The west end has an obvious door mechanism. 
The east end has a staircase going up that ends in a large, 
barred trapdoor. 

The large trapdoor is invisible from outside. The passage is 
guarded at each end by a zombie (AC 8; MV 6"; HD 2; hp 9, 14; 
#AT 1; D 1 -8; SD immune to sleep, charm, hold, and cold- 
based spells). The zombies will allow Arrness or Tellish to 
pass. 


A. Hallway 

This corridor is unlighted. It is four feet wide and seven feet 
high. 

The ogre, Gress (room 37) patrols this corridor (15% likely). If 
he hears anyone at the doors he will be quiet and wait. The 
students in rooms 40 and 41 know his name and will call it out 
before going into the corridor so that he will not attack them by 
mistake. 


29 



37. Ogre's Room (here 85%, asleep 40%) 

This small room contains a rough table and chair of large 
proportions. A candle, a huge mug, and a plate sit upon the 
table. A pallet lies in the northeast corner. 

This room is usually occupied by an ogre guard, Gress (AC 6; 
MV 12"; HD 4+1; hp 29; #AT 1; D 1-10 or weapon +2). In his 
pouch are 104 ep, a gem worth 20 gp and a ring of contrariness. 
The ring is too small to fit his large finger but he likes to look at 
it. It has a blue gem and is worth 300 gp. In his pallet can be 
found the remains of a human bone he has been gnawing 
upon. 

38. Empty Cell 

This small cell contains a rough cot, an upside down pail, and a 
three-legged stool. Under the pail is a dead large spider. There 
is nothing of interest here. 

39. Large Cell 

This room contains three rough cots, an empty pail and three 
two-legged stools. 

The room is 85% likely to contain 1-4 giant rats who have a hole 
in the south wall. The odor of the room is rather strong, as the 
rats' tunnels lead to the cesspool (44). Giant rats (AC 7; MV 12"; 
HD 1/2; hp 1-4 each #AT 1; D 1+3; SA 5% chance of disease per 
bite). 

40. Clerical Students' Room (60% for 1-3; asleep 50%) 

Three small beds line the south wall. On the east wall stands an 
upright cabinet and next to it is a ladder going up to a trapdoor. 
On the west wall there is a large chest. In the center of the room 
is a table with three chairs. On the north wall behind the door is 
a holy symbol of Kord, the God of War. 

This is the basement of the Guardhouse. The upright cabinet 
contains vestments and clothing of various types and of three 
distinct sizes. The large chest's key is hidden on the back of the 
holy symbol. The holy symbol is guarded by a fire glyph of 
warding (10 points). The large chest holds three sacks. They 
contain 31 gp, 44 sp; 18 ep, 24 sp; and 7 gp, 84 sp respectively. 
In the chest are three sets of leather armor, three clubs and 
three maces. None are magic. In the false bottom of the chest is 
a scroll of bless, cure light wounds (x2), and cause fear at 7th 
level magic use. All three students know it is there. The trap 
door to 3 is usually open, but it can be barred and padlocked in 
place from below. 


41. Students' Room 

The student assassin and magic-user share this room (here 
55%, asleep 45%; roll for each). 

The room contains two small beds. On the south wall area pair 
of chests, one on either side of the door. The north wall con 
tains two beds and an upright cabinet between them. A small 
lectern with an open book upon it and a regular table with two 
chairs complete the room's furnishings. 

A crossbow trap is set just inside the door alcove so that 
anyone who opens the door beyond 60° or hits the thin wire 
about two inches above the floor will trigger the crossbow at 
pointblank range. It attacks as a 7 HD monster for d6+4 points 
of damage. (The students only open the door part-way, then 
carefully step over the tripwire.) The chest contains clothing 
of two different sizes and of a wide variety of styles. There are 
two throwing daggers attached to the inside the door to the 
cabinet. The open book is Holga's book of spells: sleep, shield, 
detect magic, read magic. Beneath her pillow are three normal 
darts. Both students carry their personal wealth. 


42. Barracks 

This is the room for the men-at-arms (95% chance for 1d8+4; 
35% all asleep if present; 50% chance of a noisy gambling 
game if awake). 

This large room has 16 cots arranged along the east and west 
walls. At the foot of each cot is a small chest. A large barrel and 
a pail can be seen along the north wall. 

The four southern beds are not occupied. The chests are 
unlocked and contain only clothing-no treasure of any kind. 
The southern door is locked (the guards do not have the key). 
The barrel contains water. 


43. Empty Guardroom 

This circular room contains a ladder to the trap door to tower 
7a. The men-at-arms pass through here to go on duty above. It 
has a spear rack that holds 8 spears, and a large barrel with a 
spigot and a dozen tin cups. The barrel contains watered- 
down ale. The trap door can be barred from below. 


44. Cesspool (below tower 7d). Nothing unusual. 


ENDING THE ADVENTURE 


The climax of the module will probably be a raid on the castle 
to disrupt the guild and destroy Tellish's plans, and to capture 
or kill him. If the players are close to the answer, but aren't 
strong enough or devious enough to get into the castle, the DM 
may allow them a chance to stop Tellish on the way to Resten 
ford. Failing this, if the party can get a message to Pelltar 
before Andrella can be assassinated, they may be able to 
prevent the assassination. The DM should stage an exciting 
and challenging conclusion to the adventure if the party has 
been reasonably successful. 


If the DM has a copy of LI, The Secret of Bone Hill, a final 
confrontation with the canon Qualton may be arranged. 
Such a conclusion would certainly use the details of the major 


characters provided in LI, as well as the map of Restenford 
Castle. 

As a general rule, the rewards the characters earn from this 
adventure should be geared to their success. A maximum of a 
one level advance is recommended, though some characters 
may be close to a second. 

Finally, the DM should give some thought to the effect of this 
adventure on the town of Garrotten. If the party succeeds, 
some other NPC will have to take over as mayor. If they fail, 
Armess will probably move to Restenford with Tellish, and 
someone else will have to take over in Garrotten. The DM 
should use the outcome of this module to set up future 
adventures. 


30 




NEW MAGIC 


Cloak of Etherealness 

This apparently ordinary cloak will allow the user to fade 
briefly into the Ethereal Plane up to three times a week. It is 
activated by one segment of concentration. No verbal com 
mand is necessary-the character just begins to fade. The 
process takes five full segments, during which time the user 
cannot move but may defend against attacks. While fading into 
the ether the character can be struck by any weapon or spell. 
At the end of the five segments the character is wholly in the 
ether and thus invisible on the prime material and immune to 
most attacks. While ethereal, the user can move at the rate of 
15 feet per segment in any direction, even up or down, and can 
bypass walls, ceilings, magical traps, doors, etc. At the end of 
three segments, the user will fade back in to the prime material 
plane. The cloak cannot be activated again for one full turn, 
and may be activated only three times in any one week. While 
in the ether there is a 1% chance of an ethereal encounter 
which may follow the user at the DM's discretion. A user who 
would rematerialize inside a material object is trapped on the 
ethereal plane! The cloak can be used but twelve times, after 
which the item becomes non-magical. 

XP value: 2600 gp value: 15,500 


Ring of Protection vs. Charming 

This is a special limited charge ring based on the 8th level spell 

Serten's spell immunity (+9 vs. beguiling, charm, suggestion; 
+7 vs. command, domination, fear, hold, scare; +5 vs. geas, 
quest). It operates automatically to ward its wearer, and the 
protection from each charge lasts a full 16 turns. It protects 
only the wearer, and cannot be recharged. It may have a maxi 
mum of 12 charges. 

XP value: 3,600 gp value: 18,000 

Guardian Blade 

This blade does not normally glow. Its chief function is lie upon 
or beside the sleeping character and warn of approaching 
danger. It can detect enemies like a wand of enemy detection 
within a 2" sphere. Upon detecting an enemy, the guardian will 
flash a single burst of light, telepathically alert its owner, and 
go out. This power can be used but once per day, and will 
operate continuously for a period of up to six hours. It may be 
used while the character is awake and moving, but once used, 
it will not function again for twenty-four hours. 

XP value: 1600 gp value: 8,000 


Pre-rolled Characters 


The use of these characters is optional. This group of charac 
ters is identical to the party in module LI. However, some have 
gained magical items or a level of experience or two since that 
module. They are now ready to solve the murder mystery of the 
Assassin's Knot. From the following group, six to ten charac 
ters may be selected. Normal items and alternate weapons are 
not included-the DM may assign these or let the characters 
buy them. 

Fighter, human male (AC 4; MV 9"; F5; hp 28; #AT 1; D by 
weapon; AL LN; S 17, I 13, W 15, D 13, C 13, Ch 8). He wears 
chainmail and shield, and has a longsword +1 and a potion of 

heroism. 

Thief, female elf (AC 4; MV 12"; T4; hp 14; #AT 1; D by weapon; 
AL CN; S 13, I 14, W 13, D 17, C 14, Ch 10). She wears leather 
armor +1 and carries a dagger +1, +3 vs. larger than man-sized 
creatures. 

Ranger, male half-elf (AC 0; MV 12"; R3; hp 27; #AT 1, D by 
weapon: AL NG; S 15, I 14, W 13, D 16, C 15, Ch 11). He has 

chainmail +2, a normal shield, and a longsword +1. 

Cleric, human male (AC 3; MV 12"; C4; hp 22; #AT 1; D by 
weapon; AL LG; S 15, I 13, W 17, D 13, C 14, Ch 13). He wears 
chainmail +1, carries a normal shield, and has a mace +1. 


Fighter, male dwarf (AC 2; MV 9"; F4; hp 30; #AT 1; D by 
weapon; AL LN; S 16, I 12, W 10, D 15, C 15, Ch 7). He has 

chainmail +1, a shield, a flail +2, and a potion of extra-healing. 

Druid, female human (AC 7; MV 12"; Dr4; hp 27; #AT 1; D by 
weapon; AL N; S 13, I 12, W 16, D 14, C 17, Ch 17). She has 
leather armor, a wooden shield, a quarterstaff, and a scroll of 
wall of thorns 11th level magic use (35% chance of error when 
using). 

Magic-user, female elf (AC 7; MV 12"; M4; hp 13; #AT 1, D by 
weapon; AL LN; S 10, I 17, W 13, D 14, C 14, Ch 12). She wears 
bracers of defense AC 7. In her book of spells are 6 first level 
spells and 3 second level spells. 

Thief, male gnome (AC 6; MV 9"; T3; hp 18; #AT 1; D by 
weapon: AL N; S 12, I 13, W 13, D 16, C 15, Ch 13). He wears 
leather armor. His short sword +1 (I 12, E 2; detects magic 
within 1"; semi-empathic). The detection may be used once 
each turn. 

Fighter, human male (AC 4; MV 9"; F2; hp 15; #AT 1; D by 
weapon; AL CG; S 18(61), I 10, W 11, D 13, C 14, Ch 10). His 
chainmail and shield are normal. He bears a flame tongue 
sword +1. 

Cleric, human male (AC 0; MV 9"; C4; hp 22; #AT 1; D by 
weapon; AL CG; S 16, I 12, W 15, D 15, C 12, Ch 17). He wears 
normal chainmail and has a shield +3. 


-CREDITS- 

Design: Len Lakofka 
Development/Editing: Jon Pickens 
Cartography: Stephen D. Sullivan 

Special Thanks to: Allen Hammack, Harold Johnson, Frank 
Mentzer 


If you have any rules questions, please write to TSR. Ask the 
questions so they can be answered by a "yes," "no," or short 
answer. You must include a self-addressed, stamped enve 
lope. Write to: TSR Hobbies, Inc., PO Box 756, Lake Geneva, 
Wl 53147, ATTN: Rules Editor. 


31 






117-1 


*1*3 7 SR HcfcDiM. Inc. All Rm^TH* JV-^rwrl 


pjpiuejsey <JJ. 








































THE HOUSE OF ABRAHAM (INN) 



Garden 




Corral 


6ooo" iboo^o a 


Key 


Door 

Secret Door 
B Locked Door 

B 


Door can be 
Locked 


S Door Locked 
at Night 

lllii'" Istairs 


- 1 Fence 

Road Path 
Trees 


55 


Garden 


E3 Window 

I > ; (Trap Door Coiling 

L-.-.-'J with Ladder 


(r) 


Secret Trap Door 
in Floor 



1 square = 5' 














































































































































































































































The Town Table lists total town occupants so the number of 
men, womon, and children under 12 can be told at a glance. 
The entry 3,2, 4 would be five adults: three men. two women, 
and four children under 12 years of age. The table gives the 
number, profession, sex, and level of the major NPCs living in 
each building. The following abbreviations are used: 


C = Cleric, D Druid, F - Fighter, R - Ranger. M Magic-user, 
I = Illusionist, A - Assassin, T - Thief, MaA - Man-at-arms. 

=z 




NM or P - a zero hit die peasant or shopkeeper, 8 - Bard, 
F/C - Fighter/Cloric, C/A = Cleric/Assassin. After the abbrevi 
ation is a statement of lovel for all characters who are first level 
or higher: M6 would be a 6th level magic-user; F4,4,2x3 would 
bo four fighters-two 4th level (one a woman), and two 3rd 
level. Men-at-arms and peasants are all zero hit dice (MaA 12 is 
twelve men-at-arms). 


zzzzzzz 


_ 


- 


THE TOWN TABLE 



Building/Type Occupants 

Characters/notes 

Building/Type Occupants 

Characters/notes 

1* 

Castle, stone 

31, 6, 

2 M 6.4.1, C4 

26* Cottage, wood. Fisherman 1.2,1 

C 7, P 1. 7 




3*1, C/A 5/6, A 4,3 

27 Cottage, wood, Fisherman 1,1,7 

P 1,1, N 




2*1, C/F 4/5, 

28 Cottage, wood, Fisherman 1,1,2 

P 1.7. N 




F 2, 2*2, 4*1. 

29* Jeweler/Moneychanger, -,1 

14 




MaA 6, Ore 7, P 2, 2 

stone 


2* 

Inn, stone foundation 

9,1 

F4. M3. P3, 1 

30 Cottage, wood, Fisherman 1,1, 

MaA 1. P 7, N; 


wooden upper structure 


T 3, A 4, 2*3 


AC 7, hp 5. 






broadsword 

3* 

Church, stone 

13 

C 9,6,4,5*2, 4*1. A 4 

31* Netmaker, wood 1,1,2 

M 1.1 

4' 

Theater, stone 

5.1 

B 7/5/5, 1 3. M 3 

32* Cottage, wood. Fisherman 1,7,2 

C 3, P 7 


foundation, wooden 


T3*1 

33 Cottage, wood. Fisherman 1,7.3 

P 1.7. N 


upper structure 



34 Cottage, wood. Fisherman 1,7,1 

P 1,7, N 

5* 

Cottage, stucco, Farmer 

1.1.2 

D3. PI 

35 Cottage, shack. Fisherman 1.7,4 

P 1.7. NE 

6 

Cottage, frame. Farmer 

1,1,2 

P 1.1. LN 

36 Fish Dealer, stall 2.0,3 

MaA 2. LN; AC 7, 

7 

Cottage, frame. Farmer 

1.1.4 

P 1.1, LN 


hp 4,3, longsword 

8 

Cottage, shack, Farmer 

1.1.2 

P1.1.N 

37 Sanllmaker, wood 1,7 

PI.7, N 

9 

Cottage, frame, Farmer 

1,1,2 

MaA 1, P 1, LN; 

38 Tackle maker, wood 1,7 

MaA 1,1, N; AC 7 




AC 7, hp 5, 


hp 4,3, longsword ' 




broadsword 

39* Cottage, shack 1 

T 4 

10 

Cottage, frame, Farmer 

1,1,7 

MaA 1, 1, LN; 

40 Wheelwright, stone & wood 1 

F 1, LN; 




AC 7, hp 4,3 


AC 4, hp 9, war 




roadswords 


hammer 

11 

Cottage, framo, Farmer 

1.1.4 

MaA 1. P 1, N; 

41 Horse trader, wood 1 

F 2. N; AC 5. hp 10, 




AC 7. hp 6, long- 


longsword & longbow 




sword & longbow 

42 Ropemaker, wood 1,1,3 

T 2, P 7, N; AC 6, 

12 

Blacksmith, stone 

1 

F2. LN; AC5, hp 14, 


hp 7, short sword 




two-handed sword, 

43 Bowyer, wood & stone 1,7,1 

F 4, C 1; LN; AC 7, 




trongth >1/>3 


hp 24,6. longsword & 

13* 

General Store, stone 

1,1 

F5,2 


longbow, mace 

14 

Baker, frame 

1,1,3 

F 1. P 1, LN; 

44 Cottage, shack. Fisherman 1,7,1 

PI, 7, NE 




AC 4, hp 11. battle 

45 Boatbuilder, frame & stone 1 

F 2, LN; AC 3, hp 13, 




axe 


longsword & 

15 

Tackle, Harness, 

U 

MaA 7, P 1, N; 


chalnmnil *1 


& Leather Goods, frame 


AC 7, hp 4, flail & 

46* Weaponsmith, stone 1,7 

F 4. P 1 




longbow 

47 Balt Shop, frame 1,7,2 

P 1, 7, LN 

16 

Home, frame & stone 

1,1,8 

P 1,1, LN 

48* Herb & Spice Shop, wood 1,1,4 

Alchemist. P 1 


foundation, Farmer 



49 Cottage, wood, Fisherman 1,1 

MaA 1.7, LN; 

17 

Cottage, frame 

1,1,3 

MaA 1, P 1. LN; 


AC 7, hp 5,4 




AC 7, hp 4, q. staff & 


longswords 




longbow 

50* Guard House, stone 3 

F 3,2, C 2 

18* 

Winery, stone & wood 

6 

C 2,1, P 4 

51* Statue, Xerbo - 

- 1 

19* 

Armorer, stone 

1.1 

F5P 7 

52* Statue, Osprem 

- 

20* 

Tailor, frame 

1 

M 1 

53* Statue, Kord - 

_ 

21 

Cottage, Fisherman 

1.1.1 

F 3, P 7. LN; 






AC 6. hp 18, 

Note: Those on the town militia (MaA) are usually armor class 7,1 




longsword 

studded loathor armor. Fomale characters are in italic. 

22 

Food Shop, frame 

1,13 

P 1.7. N 



23 

Fresh Food, wooden stall 

-.1,1 

P 2, N 

Total occupants: Men - 110, Women 

- 56. Children - 80, 

24 

Cottage, Fisherman 

3 

MaA 3, LN; AC 7. 

Men-at-arms (including garrison) - 29, Fighters (including gar- 




hp 6,5,3, longswords 

rison) - 22, Clerics/Druids - 25. Magic Users/lllusionists - 12,1 




& longbows 

Thieves/Assassins - 15 (Guild - 9) 


25* 

Boathouse, stone & wood 

+, 1 

M3 


































TOWN MAP OF GARROTTEN 



1 square = 30 leer 


















































































































































































































