Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My lists
My collections
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09147 The Temple Of Elemental Evil"
See other formats
A Monstrous Adventure! Includes Tl, The Village of H6mmlet 
$nd the long awaited T2,'temple of Elemental Evil set in the 
WORLD OF GREYHAWK* Setting 


TSR, Inc. 

PROOUCTS OF YOUp IMAGINATION' 


X 1 


Campaign Advkriturj^tpr. thai^terLevels 1& 

r r y U ) | •' 


9147 






Advanced / 
Dun3eons5i>ra3ons - 

OFFICIAL GAME ADVENTURE 

THE 

TEMPLE OF 


- S L'tf. i. < 


%, - \*l 

-r 


. 1 ->*3 

. .j \ 

* ' x 


) 


:./4 * 

tff y l 


* 

li; '•" 'tyi • - 

iife: 




)4" 


'-S/ 


*,\ ,4( A ¦** . % ¦*"• r." *fc t ,* .. "' jr 

I >\ R v^b^^ED DUNGEONS G DRAGONS. WORLDOFGREYHAWK, TOODUCTSOF YOUR IMAGINATION 
aniftbtASRjtgJhrc IftAirurks o*mi^.bv^SR. lii*. ' V "' ( 




Advanced 

DungeonsJJpragons 

OFFICIAL GAME ADVENTURE 


THE 



TEMPLE OF 


TSR Inc. 

POB 756 

Lake Geneva, Wl 

53147 



TSR UK Ltd. 
The Mill, Rathmore Road 
Cambridge CB14AD 
United Kingdom 


ADVANCED DUNGEONS 8. DRAGONS, AD8.D, WORLD OF GREYHAWK, PRODUCTS OF YOUR 
IMAGINATION, and the 

TSR logo are trademarks owned by TSR Inc. 

May 1987 







Table 

of Contents 


Editing: Ed Carmien, Bruce Heard, Harold )ohnson, Thad Russell, 
Steve Winter 
Cover: Keith Parkinson 

Interior Art: Jeff Butler, Clyde Caldwell, Jeff Easley, Larry Elmore, 
Keith Parkinson, Dave Trampier 

Typography: Betty Elmore, Kim Lindau 
Keyline: Dennis Kauth, Bruce Knutson 
Cartography: Dave Sutherland 


Distributed to the book trade in the United States by Random House 
Inc., and in Canada by Random House of Canada, Ltd. Distributed to 
the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors. Distributed in the 
United Kingdom by TSR UK Ltd. 

A Copyright 1985 TSR Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

This adventure is protected under the copyright laws of the United 
States of America. Any reproduction or other unauthorized use of the 
material or artwork contained herein is prohibited without the express 
written permisson of TSR Inc. 

First Printing August 1985 


Introduction.4 

Getting Started . 4 

Players Background . 4 

Notes for the Dungeon Master . 5 

Other Adventures . 6 

Part I: The Village of Hommlet. 7 

Players Description . 7 

Key to the Village . 7 

Detailed Buildings . 14 

Area 7. The Inn of the Welcome Wench . 14 

Area 13. Trading Post . 17 

Area 20. Church of St. Cuthbert . 18 

Area 31. Guard Tower . 19 

The Ruins of the Moathouse . 21 

Upper Level Random Encounters . 21 

Upper Level Encounter Key . 21 

Dungeon Level Random Encounters . 23 

Dungeon Level Encounter Key . 24 

Interlude: Hommletto Nulb.27 

Players Background . 27 

Players Historical Notes . 27 

Notes for the Dungeon Master .28 

WORLD OF GREYHAWK(tm) Setting .28 

Secret History of the Temple . 28 

Part 2: Nulb and the Ruins.30 

The Village of Nulb . 30 

Outdoor Notes . 30 

Random Encounters (Outdoors) . 30 

Nulb Militia .30 

Coordinated Efforts .31 

Mercenaries . 31 

Assistance and Training . 31 

Nulb Encounter Key . 32 

Ruins of Elemental Evil . 35 

Players Description .35 

Exterior Notes (for the DM) . 36 

Random Encounters (Upper Works) . 36 

The Broken Tower . 36 


Printed in the U.S.A. 









































Tower Exterior .36 

General Notes .36 

Defense Strategy.37 

Tower Area Descriptions .37 

Building Ruins . 38 

The Temple . 39 

First Impressions. 39 

Sealed Doors . 39 

Temple Area Descriptions . 40 

Part 3: Dungeons of Elemental Evil .43 

Standard Corridors . 43 

Stairs . 43 

Ventilation . 43 

Map Numbering . 43 

Area Descriptions. 43 

Prisoners .43 

Treasure . 43 

Recruiting . 43 

Zuggtmoy Bound . 43 

Dungeon Level One .45 

Random Encounters .45 

Room Key .45 

Dungeon Level Two .58 

Random Encounters . 58 

Room Key . 58 

Dungeon Level Three . 75 

Random Encounters . 75 

Room Key .76 

Dungeon Level Four . 95 

Character Actions . 95 

luz and St. Cuthbert . 95 

Troops and Sentries . 95 

Tactical Notes .96 

Random Encounters .96 

Room Key . 97 

Part 4: Nodes of Elemental Evil.107 

Transportation . 107 

Environmental Damage. 107 

Development.107 

Modifications to Magic . 108 

Spell Variations . 108 

Cleric Spells . 108 

Druid Spells . 108 


Magic-User Spells . 108 

Illusionist Spells . 108 

Table of Magical Treasures . 110 

Residents . 110 

RandomEncounters.Ill 

Ashrem.Ill 

Darley.Ill 

Sargen . 114 

Taki.114 

Air Node . 114 

Description . 114 

Brief Area Notes . 114 

Residents . 115 

Earth Node . 115 

Description . 115 

Brief Area Notes.115 

Residents . 116 

Fire Node . 117 

Description . 117 

Brief Area Notes . 117 

Residents . 117 

Water Node . 118 

Description . 118 

Brief Area Notes . 118 

Residents . 119 

Appendices.120 

Appendix A. Deities Ik Demigods . 120 

Standard Divine Abilities . 120 

luz . 121 

St. Cuthbert . 122 

Appendix B: Monsters . 123 

Zuggtmoy . 123 

Zuggtmoy s Beloved. 124 

Juggernaut.125 

Appendix C: Magic Items . 126 

Gargoyle Cloak . 126 

Ichor of Intoxication . 126 

Leomund's Labile Locker . 126 

Pouch of Holding . 126 

Wand of a Wonder . 126 

Fragarach.127 

Other Swords of Answering . 127 

Lens of Transformation . 127 

The Orb of Golden Death . 127 


























































































Introduction 



Welcome to the exciting WORLD OF 
GREYHAWK fantasy setting. It is a world 
rich in history, intrigue, and magic... a place 
of opportunity, and of danger as well. 

This story unfolds in a small part of that 
world, a very small part indeed. But this 
place, at the foot of the Kron Hills not far 
north of the great Azure Sea, could breed dan 
gers to threaten the nearby greater realms with 
the fine-sounding names-the Archclericy of 
Veluna, and the kingdoms of Celene and 
Furyondy. Hommlet and Nulb are two small 
villages, which squat in the vales between 
these great powers like two dark and tiny 
eyes, surrounded by the ancient wrinkled hills 
on the face of some evil demiurge. 

Players, you should each have a character 
of first or second level of experience. Your 
young novices are about to set forth on the 
path to adventure. The road may seem clear at 
first, but many twists and turns await you-in 
the near future, and in the far as well. 

Dungeon Master, your tasks are many. 
You must portray two entire villages, person 
by person. Scoundrels lurk in shadows, 
monsters prowl the nearby ruins, and all 
play their parts in the game. But the chal 
lenges, situations, or amusements they 
present are only as good as your skills. 

Start at the beginning, and stop when you 
feel the pinch of time. Resume your adven 
tures whenever you like; such is a role play 
ing game. Turn now to GETTING 
STARTED 1 and prepare to set forth! 

GETTING STARTED 

Before starting the adventure, each 
Player should have the ADfkD(r) PLAYERS 
HANDBOOK, a set of dice, and a 1st or 2nd 
level character (the group including at least 


one of each of the four major classes). The 
Dungeon Master needs the AD&^D(r) 
DUNGEON MASTERS GUIDE, scrap 
paper, and dice. The three books of AD&vD(r) 
game monsters can also help greatly. Also 
before the game, the DM should read and 
become roughly familiar with the entire 
adventure. Skip minor detail, concentrating 
on the overall themes and their connections 
in the different locales, if an encounter 
includes special notes which will apply 
before a party can react, highlight or mark 
such passages as a reminder, so you are sure 
of properly including each detail. 

DM, if you start the adventure before read 
ing the whole, limit the first game session to 
Hommlet itself. Then read at least enough in 
advance to keep ahead of the players. 

Appendix A gives a list of deities found in 
the WORLD OF GREYHAWK(tm) setting. 
The DM should review those notes with the 
players either before starting or at some 
time early in the characters' careers. 

Now have one player read the following 
Players' Background to the rest, supplying 
Map #1 for their reference. The background 
is a bit lengthy-but the road ahead is a long 
one, as well. 

PLAYER S BACKGROUND 

The Village of Hommlett-or merely 
"Hommlett," as it is commonly called-is situ 
ated in the central part of the Flanaess, that 
portion of western Oerik Continent which is 
known and 'civilized.' The hamlet-sized village 
(local parlance having distinguished it with the 
greater term) is located some 30 leagues south 
east of the town of Verbobonc, or there 
abouts, on the fringe of the territory 
controlled by the noble Lord the Viscount of 


Verbobonc. It is at a crossroads. 

To the north is the mighty Velverdyva 
River, along whose south bank runs the 
Lowroad. Many days' travel to the east, on 
the shores of the Lake of Unknown Depths 
(Nyr Dyv), is the great walled city of Dyvers. 
The village of Sobanwych lies about halfway 
along the route. Below that to the southeast 
and east are miles and miles of forest (the 
Gnarley), beyond which is the Wild Coast, 
Woolly Bay, and the Sea of Gearnat. The road 
south forks a league or so beyond the little 
community, one branch meandering off 
towards the Wild Coast, the other rolling 
through the lower Kron Hills to the village of 
Ostverk and then eventually turning south 
wards again into theelven kingdom of Celene. 
The western route leads into the very heart of 
the gnomish highlands, passing through 
Greenway Valley about a day's travel distant 
and going onwards to the Lortmii Mountains 
far beyond. 

Hommlet grew from a farm or two, a rest 
house, and a smithy. The roads brought a 
sufficient number of travelers and merchant 
wagons to attract tradesmen and artisans to 
serve those passing through. The resthouse 
became a thriving inn, and a wheel and 
wainwright settled in the thorp. More 
farmers and herdsmen followed, for grain 
was needed for the passing animals, and 
meat was in demand for the innfolk. 

Prosperity was great, for the lord of the 
district was mild and taxed but little. Trade 
was good, and the land was untroubled by 
war, outlaws, or ravaging beasts. The area 
was free, beautiful, and bountiful-too 
much so, in the eyes of some. 

Whether the evil came west from Dyvers 
(as is claimed by one faction) or crept up out 
of the forestlands bordering the Wild Coast 


4 












(as others assert), come it did. At first it was 
only a few thieves and an odd group of band 
its molesting the merchant caravans. Then 
came small bands of humanoids-kobolds or 
goblins-raiding the flocks and herds. Local 
militia and foresters of the Waldgraf of Ost- 
verk apparently checked, but did not stop, the 
spread of outlawry and evil. 

A collection of hovels and their slovenly 
inhabitants formed the nucleus for the trou 
bles which were to increase. A wicked cleric 
established a small chapel at this point. The 
folk of Hommlet tended to ignore this place, 
Nulb, even though it was but 6 miles dis 
tant. But its out-of-the-way position was 
ideal for the fell purposes planned for this 
settlement, as was its position on a small 
river flowing into the Velverdyva. The 
thickets and marshes around Nulb became 
the lair and hiding place for bandits, bri 
gands, and all sorts of evil men and mon 
sters alike. The chapel grew into a stone 
temple as its faithful brought in their ill- 
gotten tithes. Good folk were robbed, pil 
laged, enslaved, and worse. 

In but three years, a grim and forbidding 
fortress surrounded the evil place, and swarms 
of creatures worshipped and worked their 
wickedness therein. The servants of the Tem 
ple of Elemental Evil made Hommlet and the 
lands for leagues around a mockery of free 
dom and beauty. Commerce ceased, crops 
withered; pestilence was abroad. 

But the leaders of this cancer were full of 
hubris and, in their overweaning pride, sought 
to overthrow the good realms to the north, 
who were coming to the rescue of the land 
being crushed under the tyranny wrought by 
the evil temple. A great battle was fought. 

When the good people of Hommlet saw 
streams of ochre-robed men and humanoids 
fleeing south and west through their commu 
nity, there was great rejoicing, for they knew 
that the murderous oppressors had been 
defeated and driven from the field in panic and 
rout. So great was the slaughter, so complete 
the victory of good, that the walled strong 
hold of the Temple of Elemental Evil fell within 
a fortnight, despite the aid of a terrible demon. 
The place was ruined and sealed against a fur 
ther return of such abominations by powerful 
blessings and magic. 

Life in Hommlet quickly returned to a 
semblance of its former self, before the rise 
of the temple. For five years afterward, the 
village and the surrounding countryside 
have become richer and more prosperous 
than ever before. A monstrous troll which 



plagued the place for a time was hunted 
down by a party of passing adventurers. 
Carrying the ashes and a goodly fortune as 
well, the adventurers returned to the vil 
lage. Before going elsewhere to seek their 
fortunes, the adventurers also returned a 
portion of the villagers' losses. Other adven 
turers, knowing of the evil that had once 
resided in the area, came to seek out similar 
caches, and several did find remote lairs and 
wealth-just as some never returned at all. 

After a time, adventurers stopped coming 
to the area. It seemed that no monsters were 
left to slay, and no evil existed here to be 
stamped out. The villagers heaved a collective 
sigh-some pained at the loss of income, but 
others relieved by the return to the quiet, nor 
mal life-and Hommlet continued its quiet 
existence for four years more. 

But then, a year ago, the bandits began to 
ride the roads again-not frequently, but to 
some effect. To the good folk of Hommlet, this 
seemed all too familiar, so they sent word to 
the Viscount that wicked forces might still lurk 
thereabouts. This information has been 
spread throughout the countryside, and the 
news has attracted outsiders to the village 
once again. Who and what these men are, no 
one can be quite sure. All claim to be bent on 
slaying monsters and bringing peace and secu 
rity to Hommlet; but deeds speak more loudly 
than words, and lies cloak the true purposes of 
the malevolent. 

NOTES FOR THE DUNGEON MASTER 

This module is designed for beginning- 
level play. Experienced players can also 
enjoy the scenario, but they should start 
new 1st level characters to do so. If you hap 
pen to have a group which is new to the 
game, allow them to bring their existing 
characters; there is no sense in requiring 
that they begin the business all over again. 

Experienced 1st, 2nd, and even 3rd level 
characters can easily begin in Hommlet. If 
characters are higher than level one, modify 
the material in the 'Getting Started 1 portion, 
of course. You should sharply limit the 
amount of gear and treasure they can bring 
to the village (as you will understand when 
you read the adventure). If your group of 
players has had exceptional luck, simply 
engineer a minor encounter or two along the 
way-light-fingered leprechauns, a thief or 
two, or perhaps some brigands-to rid them 
of a few of those cumbersome gems, coins, 
and magical items. 



For each numbered area, general informa 
tion is given first. If the text is boxed, it may be 
read directly to the players. Otherwise, 
present the given information in your own 
words. If you are so thoroughly familiar with 
the module that you can simply glance at the 
name of the encounter area and then put eve 
rything in your own words, so much the bet 
ter. You should be conversant with the whole 
before beginning play. Your players will, in 
turn, reflect and be inspired by your skill in 
presenting the material herein. 

Immediately following the player informa 
tion is more detailed and often secret material, 
which you should not reveal to the players. 
Review this carefully as well, to be sure of the 
interrelationships and consequences of certain 
actions. 

The whole is quite general, in fact, and 
while some characteristics of the non-player 
characters (hereafter referred to as NPCs) 
are given, there is sufficient latitude for you 
to completely personalize the adventure to 
fit your style of play and satisfy your play 
ers. Follow the guidelines given, but round 
them out to make each encounter unique. 

The persons that are met at the inn, along 
the road, and so forth, are you; for the 
Dungeon Master is all-monsters, NPCs, 
and all else but player characters. Play it to 
the hilt. Do it with flair and wit. Be fair both 
to the characters and to yourself. Be cun 
ning but just and honest when in the role of 
a warding ranger. Be deceitful, clever, and 
thoroughly dishonest when acting the part 
of a thief. Think of the parts you take as 
those of characters you are playing, and act 
accordingly. But temper your actions with 
disinterest in the eventual outcome, and 
keep only the viewpoint of that particular 
role. Wearing two, three, or a dozen differ 
ent hats is challenging, but that is part of 
being an outstanding DM. 

The area of Hommlet, as well as that of the 
Temple, was developed in order to smoothly 
integrate players in the GREYHAWK cam 
paign (both experienced and otherwise) into a 
scenario related to the 'old timers' only by rel 
ative proximity. All had new characters, 
although experienced players were assigned 
characters with levels above 1st or 2nd. The 
whole attempt turned out quite well, and 
many of the NPCs in the adventure are the 
characters and henchmen developed through 
play. The situation and the surroundings have 
been altered because of the actual experiences 
of these participants, although the clock has 
been turned back to give you and your group 


5 






of players an opportunity to make history of 
your own. While I am strongly tempted to 
relate the events of the campaign we played, I 
believe it to be inappropriate to the adventure. 
(Ask me at a game convention, some time....) 

Only some of the villagers are named. 
Please name the others to suit your cam 
paign. Most of the local folk are of the Old 
Faith-the druidical-and consider the 
Druid of the Grove (area 24) to be their spir 
itual caretaker. Many of the inhabitants are 
zero-level types; treat as 1-1 Hit Dice for 
purposes of combat, if such occurs (which 
should be infrequent at best). 

Floor plans for most of the buildings are 
not given, so you should design them for 
areas in which you expect action to occur. 
Change the map of Hommlet as the game 
progresses. Note any places destroyed, and 
add new ones for persons you move into the 
place. If a general battle seems likely, you 
can list the village militia and fight it out on 
the tabletop. In short, the scenario has been 
left as open as possible for your own taste in 
development. Have fun! 

As a final note, remember that the NPCs 
who are noted as agents of various powers 
will send a continuous stream of informa 
tion to their superiors. All will be cautious 
in their actions, and are unlikely to be 
duped or maneuvered. If they participate in 
any adventures, or if they are imprisoned or 
badly treated, their masters will be very 
unhappy if bad news is received. The con 
cerned parties will absolutely seek to redress 
matters according to their alignments, per 
sonalities, and ultimate goals. 

There are wheels within wheels in the Vil 
lage of Hommlet and the lands around. 
Behind each person lurks another, the cir 
cles growing wider and the figures shadowy 
but very powerful. 

OTHER ADVENTURES 

Though characters who start their careers 
in Hommlet should, after finishing with the 
place, be able to take on the villains of Nulb 
and the Temple, not all adventurers are 
lucky. Some characters will no doubt perish 
in the course of this adventure, and events 
will not always proceed as planned. As DM, 
you should gauge the progress of the players 
and characters alike. If they need more sea 
soning before continuing to the greater chal 
lenges, you may-and should-design and 
develop other adventures in the area. The 
details of such side jaunts' are left entirely 


to you. The myriad details of your cam 
paign and personal preferences will suggest 
some natural outgrowths, as will the actions 
of the characters, if well-played. Hereafter 
are a few brief ideas for your own develop 
ment as needed or desired. 

Hommlet and Nulb: if you develop the lat 
ter village in the manner given for the former, 
many natural developments will suggest 
themselves. New arrivals of typical townsfolk 
should be fairly common, and NPC adventur 
ers will arrive with regularity. Some of the lat 
ter may be of interest or use, available as 
hirelings or mercenaries. Some will have their 
own ideas for adventure, and may assemble a 
rival party which the PCs may encounter now 
and again in their explorations. And of course, 
few are what they seem, and some may be 
quite powerful. 

Think of the day-to-d,ay life in these small 
villages, and imagine the needs of the local 
folk. A new mill or winery would not find 
much welcome, as these are already repre 
sented in Hommlet. But a new blacksmith 
might provide a convenient excuse, in draw 
ing off business, for Elmo and/or Otis to 
become a bit more active in their secret 
tasks. A new butcher, candlemaker, dairy 
man, fisherman, glassblower, hunter, milli 
ner, and/or potter might arrive and prosper 
in either village, perhaps bringing news, 
hidden professional skills, or other develop 
ments to the campaign. 

if some minor but nevertheless entertain 
ing foray would provide a means for low- 
level characters to gain those extra few 
points needed to gain a level, design an 
interlude accordingly, it need not fit any 
greater campaign purpose, but should be 
logical to the setting. The random encounter 
charts for the Hommlet and Nulb areas 
should stimulate a few ideas. 

As the local situation changes with the 
activity (or lack of activity) of the PCs, any 
number of noteworthy events might occur. 
The factions of the Temple, being Chaotic 
and not well-organized as yet, may decide 
on a brief and probably premature foray 
into the countryside. Some individual might 
arrive to replace Lareth the Beautiful (of the 
ruined moat-house, assuming that PCs end 
his promising career). And as greater chal 
lenge, evil elemental forces could be sent 
forth from the dungeons to test the speed 
and severity of the reactions of the forces of 
Good-a small and simple probe in the 
broader tactics of Zuggtmoy, luz, and the 
rest. The King of Furyondy, one of the 


greater powers concerned with and care 
fully watching the activity in this area, 
might send reinforcements in response. The 
druidical leaders might counter with their 
own elemental powers and other forces of 
nature. Large-scale escalation is unlikely at 
this point in the Temples recovery, but the 
appearances and effects of such develop 
ments might seem otherwise.... 

Kron Hills: Nearly 20,000 gnomes live in 
this area. This is known to most of those 
nearby, as the gnomes were instrumental in 
driving the humanoid hordes from the Lortmil 
Mountains adjacent to the southwest, as well 
as in the overthrow of the Temple a decade 
ago. The enclaves and territories of the 
gnomes should not be invaded, but other 
caves and ruins aplenty lie scattered in the 
region. This is a natural setting for some other 
small dungeon of your own design, which can 
be tailored to challenge the party's resources 
while remaining within their capabilities. 

Velverdyva: The natural flow of the river 
is eastward, from the lower Yatil mountains 
and the Clatspur range southward through 
Veluna, past Verbobonc and quite near Nulb 
(fed by the Imeryds Run), and continuing 
through the Gnarley Forest into the great 
Nyr Dyv, Lake of Unknown Depths. One of 
its sources is in the far northern Burneal For 
est, in the land of Blackmoor itself! And 
where the water flows, creatures follow. 

A simple boating jaunt, either upstream 
or down, can encounter river pirates and 
sundry random aquatic encounters (fresh 
water only, of course). Low-level characters 
should be discouraged from such endeavors 
to some extent, but those of level 5 and up 
might perhaps find other arms of the powers 
of Chaos and Evil lurking in the waters 
nearby. And who knows what things-or 
even kingdoms-lurk in the depths 

Verbobonc: The obvious source of new 
adventurers to replace those lost, this city also 
offers more and better equipment, a greater 
scope of information, and so forth. The spies 
of the rising Temple are here also, and will fol 
low those who seem to be on their mistress's 
trail. 

As this is a city of 11,600 and the capital of 
the Viscounty (total pop. 35,000), considera 
ble design time is required for full details. 
Small portions-the palace of Viscount 
Wilfrick, City Hall and the Mayor's residence, 
Guild halls, strongholds of the nearby gnomes 
and elves, etc.-may suffice, if accompanied 
by general street descriptions and a broad 
selection of random encounters. 


6 




Part Is 

The Village of Hommlet 


PLAYERS' DESCRIPTION 


Your party is now approaching the Village 
of Hommlet, having ridden up from lands 
of the Wild Coast. You are poorly 
mounted, badly equipped, and have no 
large sums of cash. In fact, all you have is 
what you wear and what you ride, plus the 
few coins that are hidden in purses and 
pockets. What you do possess in quantity, 
though, is daring and desire to become 
wealthy and famous. Thus your group 
comes to Hommlet to learn. Is this indeed a 
place for adventurers to seek their for 
tunes? You all hope, of course, to gain 
riches and make names for yourselves. The 
outcome of this is uncertain, but your skill 
and daring, along with a good measure of 
luck, will be the main ingredients of what 
follows, be it for weal or woe. 

The small community at the crossroads 
is a completely unknown quantity. What is 
there? Who will be encountered? Where 
should you go? These are your first explo 
rations and encounters, so chance may dic 
tate as much as intelligence. Will outsiders 
be shunned? Are the reports true-is the 
whole community engaged in evil prac 
tices? Are the folk here bumpkins, easily 
duped? Does a curse lay upon those who 
dare to venture into the lands which were 
once the Temples? All of these questions 
will soon be answered. 

The dusty, rutted road is lined with 
closely-grown hedges of brambles and 
shrubs. Here and there it cuts through a 
copse or crosses a rivulet. To either hand, 
forest and meadow have given way to 
field and orchard. A small herd of kine 
graze nearby, and a distant hill is dotted 
with the wand stone chimneys with thin 
plumes of blue smoke rising from them. 
A road angles west into the hill country, 
and to either side of the road ahead are 
barns and buildings-Hommlet at last! 

The adventure begins... 


Key to the Village 

1. PROSPEROUS FARM COTTAGE AND 
LARGE BARN 


This wood and plaster house is well- 
kept, and the barn beyond is bulging 
with hay, grain, and so forth. Several fat 
animals are about. Two large farm dogs 


barkatyour approach, and a rosy-cheeked 
goodwife appears at the doorway. 


The large goodwife is friendly, greeting all 
who call, while her four children look on. 
Inside, a young girl and her old granny do var 
ious chores. The lintel over the front door is 
carved with acorns and oak leaves. If politely 
asked, any adult in the family will state that 
the family is of the Old Faith (i.e. druidical). 

The head of the house and his two full- 
grown sons are at work in the nearby fields. 
These three are members of the town mili 
tia. The elder has a bill-guisarme and a ring 
mail jack, while his sons have leather armor 
and shield and wield a flail and an axe 
(respectively). Each has a dagger at all 
times. They take arms only in self-defense 
or when called up by the village elder. The 
two farm dogs will attack intruders if their 
master or his family are attacked or even 
visibly threatened. 

Farm dogs (2): AC 7; HD 1 + 1; hp 7; 5; #AT 
1; D 1-4; XP 34; 30 

Farmer; AC 7; Level 0; hp 6; #AT 1; D 2-8; 
XP 16 

Sons (2): AC 7; Level 0; hp 5; 4; #AT 1; D 1- 
8 (flail) or 1-4 (axe); XP 15; 14 

There is nothing here of interest to the 
adventurers. Other than feed grain or hay, 
the farmer has nothing to sell or trade. 

The farmer has 57 pp hidden in his mat 
tress and a blue spinel (worth 500 gp) 
secured in his pouch, saved for hard times. 

2. MODEST FARMHOUSE AND BARN 


Clean but slightly run-down buildings 
indicate that this farm is not very pros 
perous. However, the stock appears 
quite healthy and plump. An active lad 
of 12 or so is doing chores. Nothing 
appears of particular interest. 


An elderly couple herein are master and 
mistress; the boy is a servant. These folks 
have nothing to trade. The elders say that 
their son Elmo would be interested in talk 
ing with strangers-he's at the inn having a 
jack of ale. Their other son, Otis (they sadly 
shake their heads), took service with some 
gentlemen and is away seeking his fortune. 
Elmo is strong, but not too quick, and is 


overfond of brew. 

The elderly farmer is a retired fighter still 
somewhat in practice, equivalent to level 4. 
He owns a suit of scale mail, a shield, long- 
sword, and a light crossbow, all kept in a 
chest in the front room. He is, in fact, cap 
tain of the local militia, though he will say 
nothing of it. 

Farmer; AC 5 (if prepared); Level 4 Fighter; 

hp 16; #AT 1; D 1-8 (sword) or 1-4 

(crossbow, ranges 6"/12"/18'); XP 214; 

S 15 I 12 W 16 D 12 Co 16 Ch 11 

Servant: AC 9 (shield); Level 0; hp 4; #AT 1; 

D 1-6 (club); XP 14 

Underneath some rusty nails in a keg in the 
back shed are 172 ep, 51 gp, and 20 pp. A 
cupboard in the house holds a silver service 
worth 1,300 gp. 

Elmo may (50% chance) return while the 
party is here, and may otherwise (25%) be 
encountered on the road after the characters 
depart. He will otherwise be encountered at 
the Inn. 

Elmo will reveal his status (man-at-arms) 
to any who ask. While in town 'carousing', 
he is unarmored but carries (as always) his 
dagger +2. If asked about it, he proudly 
proclaims "My brudder Otis gave it to me!" 

Elmo's speech is slow and halting. He 
often appears tipsy and jovial, frequenting 
the inn of the Welcome Wench much of the 
time. He will state his interest-money 
(obviously to be used for ale purchases) - 
and will work as a hireling, gladly accompa 
nying any who ask providing they furnish 
him with chain armor and a BIG axe. " 

Elmo only pretends his inebriation; he is a 
4th level ranger, and an agent of the Viscount 
of Verbobonc. His town visits are for the pur 
pose of observing newcomers, to insinuate 
himself in their expeditions. If employed, he 
dons his own mail (see below) in place of that 
given (or under a lighter type), and uses his 
own magical battle axe as well. 

Elmo's valuables are hidden in a lead- 
lined oaken chest buried in the dirt floor of 
the barn; chain mail +1, shield +2, battle 
axe +1, 100 sp, 50 gp, 10 pp, and and small 
pearls worth 100 gp each. The lead will foil 
all attempts at magical detection. He also 
owns a longbow with two score arrows, 
half of them silver-tipped, though he does 
not bring this weapon on adventures. 


7 








Elmo: AC 1 (equipped) or 8; Level 4 Ranger 
(HD 5); hp 41; #AT 1; D 5-12 (battle axe) 
or 6-9 (dagger) each including magic and 
strength bonuses); XP 375 
S 18/43 I 15 W 16 D 16 Co 17 Ch 11 

If anything untoward befalls Elmo, his 
brother Otis will eventually hear of it and 
seek redress. See area 2 in the Nulb 
encounter key for details. 

3. COTTAGE 

This rustic abode houses the local wood 
cutter, who is a member of the local militia. 
He lives with his wife and three young chil 
dren. He has nothing of interest to charac 
ters, and is not interested in adventuring. 
He keeps his leather armor, battle axe, and 
heavy crossbow (with 30 quarrels) in a chest 
in the bedroom. 

He is of the Old Faith, and will report 
anything unusual to the druid (area 24). In a 
pouch under the floorboards of his cottage 
are 38 cp, 17 sp, 13 ep, and 9 gp. 

Woodcutter: AC 8 (leather); Level 0; hp 6; 
#AT 1; D 1-8 (battle axe) or 2-5 (cross 
bow, ranges 8"/16"/24"). XP 20 

4. WELL-KEPT FARM 


The house and barn show that this 
farmer is doing well, and the stock in the 
fenced-in yard are very fine-looking. You 
see a fetching feminine face in a window. 


A widow and her two grown sons (mem 
bers of the Militia) dwell here, the latter 
with their wives and eight children. They 
are interested in neither trade nor adventur 
ing. These folk are all of the Old Faith. 

In a large iron pot buried beneath the tree 
in the back yard are 421 sp and 97 gp. 

Sons (2): AC 8; Level 0; hp 4 each; #AT 1; D 
1-6 (hand axe or club); XP 14 each 

5. PROSPEROUS FARMHOUSE 

This farmer is a widower of middle age 
with the trying task of raising five children, 
the two eldest being teen-aged daughters. A 
manservant laborer helps with the chores. 
The farmer is the brother of the farmer to 
the south (area 1) and is quite distant and 
taciturn. He turns folk away unless they 
have farm business. He keeps his leather 



armor neatly hung near the front door. Both 
of the men are militiamen. 

Inside a crock in the manure pile are hid 
den 55 gp, 37 pp, and three zircons worth 50 
gp each. The farmer carries 8 cp, 22 sp, 15 
gp, and 8 pp in his purse. 

Farmer: AC 7 (if prepared); Level 0; hp 3; 
#AT 1; D 1-8 (sword); XP 13 

Manservant: AC 10; Level 0; hp 6; #AT 1; D 
2-8 (voulge); XP 16 

6. HOUSE WITH LEATHER HIDE 
TACKED TO FRONT DOOR 

This is the home and business of the vil 
lage leatherworker and his wife, her brother 
(a simpleton who does not bear arms), and 
three children, the eldest of whom is a 12- 
year-old boy. The leatherworker is a jack of 
all trades', being shoemaker, bootmaker, 
cobbler, saddler, harnessmaker, and even 
fashioner of leather garments and armor, 
the latter requiring some time and a number 
of fittings and boiling. He is not interested in 
any sort of adventuring, but is a militiaman, 
as is the boy. Sewn into an old horse collar 
are 27 gp, 40 ep, and a silver necklace worth 
400 gp. 

Leatherworker: AC 7 (leather fk shield); 
Level 0, hp 2; #AT 1, D 1-4 (sling) or 1-6 
(axe); XP 16 

Eldest son: AC 8 (leather jack); Level 0; hp 
2; #AT 1; D 1-4 (sling or dagger); XP 16 

7. LARGE BUILDING WITH SIGN 


The square wooden sign shows a buxom 
and smiling girl holding a flagon of beer. 
This must be the inn of the Welcome 
Wench, a place renowned for its good 
food and excellent drink! Passing mer 
chants make a point of stopping, as do 
many other sorts of wayfarers, and it is 
said that the place is always filled with 
patrons. 


The three levels of this place are shown on 
Map 3, and the building is described in 
detail under "The Inn of the Welcome 
Wench." 

A young stableboy and a groom handle the 
draft and riding animals, and themselves live 
in the stables. The innkeeper is Ostler Gundi- 
goot, always found bustling about the place 



along with his goodwife, their two daughters, 
a serving wench or two, and a pair of potboy 
apprentices. Several customers (4-16) are in 
the main room most of the time. 

The host talks freely but says little. He 
has a sharp eye and a good sense for judging 
character. He serves all comers, and will 
rent a room to anyone who is not causing 
trouble. 

Ostler is the sergeant of the militia, and 
the stableboy and groom are also members. 
The first potboy is an aspiring druid, and he 
serves as the courier to the druid of the 
grove, bearing messages of interesting data 
to him. 

Ostler the Innkeeper: AC 6; Level 2 Fighter; 
hp 17; #AT 1; D 2-9 (sword); XP 62 
S 16 I 10 W 13 D 10 Co 18 Ch 17 

Stablemen (2, stableboy and groom): AC 9; 
Level 0; hp 3 each; #AT 1; Dl-6 (spear or 
club); XP 16 

8. OPEN SHED AND HOUSE BEHIND 


Horseshoes are nailed to three faces of 
the post in front of this shed, and within 
sit a forge and bellows. This is obviously 
the smithy. A short but brawny man is 
vigorously pounding away at a piece of 
red-hot iron. 


The smith is obviously hard-working, 
forthright, and likeable. He is able to do all 
sorts of metalwork, even fashioning iron 
and steel weapon heads, helmets, and 
shields. He will readily admit that he is not 
capable of fine armoring. 

"Brother Smyth" is the assistant to the 
druid of the grove. Though he will never 
work up very high because of his occupa 
tion, he will assume the role of religious 
advisor to the faithful. He has a small chest 
filled with 82 cp and 28 sp. The rest of his 
wealth he gives to the good work for the 
needy, in no event will he leave his fireside 
to go adventuring. 

Smith: AC 8; Level 3 Druid; hp 19; #AT 1; 
D 1-6 (staff) or 1-4 (hammer) or by spell; 
XP 1 77 

S 17 I 9 W 13 D 10 Co 15 Ch 15 
Spells: any (4 LI, 2 L2, 1 L3, including 
wisdom bonus) 


8 









9. NEWBUILDING 


There is no one here. The doors are 
unlocked, and a few benches and stools 
stand by the bare walls, with a large, 
plain table at the far end of the room. A 
tapestry on the back wall shows a green 
field with two acorns above a sheaf of 
grain-the banner of Hommlet. 


This is the village hall recently con 
structed for feasts and councils by Burne 
and Rufus (q.v. area 31). 

10. WELL-KEPT DWELLING WITH A 
SIGN 

The wooden sign depicts a bag of wool 
and a loom. Herein dwells the elderly 
weaver and his wife, their daughter, and her 
husband. Four young apprentices are also 
here, as business is very good. There are 
bolts of woolen and flaxen cloth here, but 
nothing else of possible interest. 

These folk are Lawful Neutral followers 
of St. Cuthbert (see area 20). They moved to 
the area only two years ago. The weaver has 
a cache of 7 small gold ingots (24 gp each) 
and a gold pin (200 gp) with an amethyst 
(100 gp) behind a loose stone in the fire 
place. 

Son-in-law: AC 8(padded armor Ik shield); 

Level 0; hp 3; #AT 1; D 1-4 (dagger) or 

1-6 (spear); XP 13 

Apprentices (4): AC 10; Level 0; hp 2 each; 

#AT 1; D 1-2 (awl); XP 12 each 

11. COTTAGE 

Here lives a small and mild tailor, a bach 
elor of thirty years or so. He is an expert at 
making or repairing garments. 

He has just moved to the village, but has 
not been invited to join the militia due to his 
small size. He has thus practiced at weapons 
to prove himself useful. He has become 
expert at throwing a knife and shooting a 
crossbow, attacking with either as if a 7th 
level fighter and gaining a +2 damage 
bonus. He also knows the dwarven, elven, 
and halfling tongues, in addition to Com 
mon. 

The tailor has only 19 sp in a false bottom 
of his thread box. He is a follower of St. 
Cuthbert. 


Tailor: AC 10; Level 0; hp 2; #AT 1; D 3-6 
(knife, ranges I"/2"/3", or light cross 
bow, ranges 6 "/12"/18"); XP 24 

12. AVERAGE FARM BUILDING 

This place is the home of a strapping 
farmer and his equally large son, the 
farmer's wife, and six daughters-one of 
whom has a small child. They are friendly 
but have nothing of interest to adventurers. 

These folk are of the Old Faith and have 
lived here all of their lives. The farmer and 
his son are both militiamen. A clay pot filled 
with dried flowers hides 36 gp and a gold 
ring worth 150 gp. 

Farmer and son: AC 7 (leather Ik shield); 
Level 0; hp 7 each; #AT 1; D 1-8 (flail) or 
2-8 (morning star); S 16 (each); other 
ability scores average; XP 21 each 

13. WOODEN BUILDING WITH SHUT 
TERED WINDOWS (Trading Post) 


Outside the door, a shield and lantern are 
suspended from chains. The shield is 
painted, showing a sword and a cheese. 
This is the local trading post, wherein a 
merchant apparently provides for the 
needs of villagers, travellers and adven 
turers alike. 


Refer to Map 4 for a floor plan. See Area 
13 for a detailed room key. 

The shop is run by one Rannos Davl, who 
is best described as slow, fat, clumsy and 
placid. His partner Gremag is tall and thin, 
with sharp features and protruding eyes. 
Gremag tends to dither and fuss at cus 
tomers, and at Rannos as well. 


The whole front building is filled with 
various goods. The barn has animals, 
saddles, and the like available to any 
willing to pay the price. 

Both traders claim disinterest in all 
alignments, proclaiming that they hap 
pily deal with anyone who is a paying 
customer. Furthermore, they say, they 
will gladly buy any items which you 
happen upon, and pay a fair price too! 


in the rear barn are various animals for 
sale-mules, draft horses, light riding horses, 
ponies (2-5 of each type), and one medium 
war horse. Small mounts sold can be 
restocked in 7-12 days from passing dealers. 



If war horses are desired, it will take 7-30 
days to obtain 1-2 heavy or 1-3 medium or 
light steeds, with a maximum of four such 
animals obtainable in any 30 day period. 

These nefarious traders sell all items at a 
minimum of 110% of the price given in the 
book asking more first. For an item brought 
in, if in good condition, they offer 25% of 
its worth, but can be bartered up to 40-70%. 

A groom and a man-at-arms working 
here will hire out, at the rate of 2 gp per day 
and only if the characters buy chain mail 
armor here, for their use (and only if one of 
the traders specifically approves.) Both men 
serve in the militia, spying for the shop 
keepers. 

Ramos and Gremag are naturally desir 
ous of having their agent accompany the 
party, if the group does not hire one, the 
traders will keep close track of their activi 
ties by any means possible, including fol 
lowing them personally if the situation 
warrants it (i.e. if they know that the party 
has been particularly successful). For such 
missions, a stock of magical devices hidden 
away will be brought out for use. 

Rannos Davl is chaotic, evil, and highly 
suspicious. Gremag is as evil and even more 
chaotic. Both are servants of the Temple of 
Elemental Evil, who report activity in Hom 
mlet to a brigand courier. They aid any and 
all other evil creatures who come in Temple 
service. 

Rannos Davl: AC 2 (leather armor); Level 
10 Thief; hp 48; #AT I; D 2-5 (dagger); 
XP 3522. Wears leather armor +1, ring 
of protection +1, medallion vs. crystal 
balls and ESP (under his jerkin); carries a 
dagger + 1, and keeps a shortsword +1 
under the counter. 

S 8 I 14 W9D 18 Co 15 Ch 7 

Gremag: AC -1 (chain mail); Level 7 Assas 
sin; hp 39; #AT 1; D 1-4 (dagger of 
venom) + poison (3 doses left); XP 1087. 
Wears shirt of chain mail +3 under 3 
pinches of dust of disappearance. 

S 15 I 12 W 7 D 18 Co 15 Ch 7 

Groom: AC 7 (leather (k shield); Level 0; hp 
4; #AT 1; D 1-8 (longsword) or 1-6 
(spear); XP 14 

Man-at-arms: AC 8 (leather armor); Level 1 
Fighter; hp 8; #AT 1 or 2; D 1-8 (long 
sword) or 1-6/1-6 (longbow, ranges 7"/ 
14"/21"); XP 22 


9 








14. WEATHERBEATEN BUILDING AND 
BARN 

A wooden sign shows a cart and horse, 
indicating that this is the domicile and quar 
ters of the local carter. This teamster, his 
wife, a grown son, and five other children 
live in the house. The attached barn has two 
wagons and two carts below, and two driv 
ers live in the loft. The smallish barn to the 
rear houses a dozen mules. This fellow and 
his associates are dour, but will gladly 
accept hire. 

The teamster, his son, and the two drivers 
are all militiamen. 

Another newcomer and advocate of St. 
Cuthbert, the teamster is very honest. He 
dislikes the traders, but isn't sure why, and 
will take time to speak of it if the questioner 
is careful and also a customer. Having lost a 
wagon and team lately, the fellow has only 
19 sp hidden under a loose floor board. 

Carter: AC 6 (scale); Level 0; hp 5; #AT 1; D 
1-8 (sword or fauchard-fork); XP 15 

Son: AC 6 (ring mail Ik shield); Level 0; hp 
6; #AT 1; D 1-6 (spear or club); XP 16 

Drivers (2): AC 8 (leather); Level 0; hp 4; 3; 
#AT 1; D 1-6 (club) or 1-4 (light cross 
bow, ranges 6"/12"/18"); XP 17 each 

15. STURDY NEW BUILDING WITH A 
SIGN 


The sign displays three yellow balls; this 
must be the moneychanger's. A guard in 
chain mail stands by the door, wearing a 
sword and cradling a light crossbow in 
his arms, with a quarrel ready. Two large 
dogs are sniffing in your direction. 


The proprietor is Nira Melubb. He will 
happily exchange coins and metal for other 
media, charging only 10% of the value. 
Nira also deals inpaying 50-80% of actual 
value and selling for 102-120% above actual 
value. He also makes jewelry, for a fee of 
double the value of the materials. (This is 
also the value of new jewelry.) Nira asks no 
questions and is always obliging and polite. 

Melubb is truly neutral. Though the rise 
of evil is not desired by him (as it would hurt 
business), he has no other interest in events. 
He keeps a dagger + 1 in his boot and a 
sword + 1 under the counter. His cash box 
holds 200 cp, 200 sp, 200 ep, and 200 gp. A 



small iron box nearby contains 50 pp, 12 
pieces of lovely but clear quartz (worth 5 gp 
each), two citrines, three moonstones, and a 
piece of onyx (the latter six gems worth 50 
gp each). 

In the living quarters of the establishment 
is an oaken chest. A poisoned needle trap is 
in the lock; furthermore, if the top is 
opened, acid sprays out in front (10 foot 
range), inflicting 5-20 points of damage to 
each victim in the area (save for 1/2 dam 
age, but save for items as well). A trick 
catch on the back of the chest allows safe 
entry. Inside are 1,000 cp, 1,000 sp, 1,000 
ep, 500 gp, 200 pp, nine amethysts (100 gp 
each), two large pearls (500 gp each), one 
slightly flawed diamond (1,000 gp), and 
seven pieces of jewelry (valued at 900, 1100, 
1600, 2000, 2500, 4000, and 6000 gp each). 
The bottom of the chest lifts, revealing 50 
gold ingots worth 100 gp each. 

Be sure to keep track of all transactions 
made. The stock in trade must be correct; 
for example, gems cannot be obtained when 
Nira has exhausted his supply. He can pur 
chase more from merchants, at market 
value, every 7-12 days. 

Guard: AC 4; Level 3 Fighter; hp 17; #AT 1; 
D 1-8 (longsword) or 1-4 (light cross 
bow, ranges 6"/12"/18"); XP 101 
S 13 19 W 10 D 15 Co 15CH8 

War dogs (2): AC 6; HD 2 + 2; hp 16, 13, 
#AT 1; D 2-8; XP 83, 74 

Melubb the Moneychanger: AC 4; Level 3 
Thief; hp 12; #AT 1; D 2-5 (dagger + 1) 
or 2-9 (longsword + 1); XP 116 
S9 116W 13 D 15 Co9CH 10 

16. SMALL HOUSE WITH SIGN 


The nicely painted sign shows a painted 
shield and a chest of drawers. 


This building is the shop and home of the 
local cabinet maker, his wife, and two 
young children. He has an apprentice who 
does most of the rough work, while he crafts 
the fine work and the limning. He is quite 
adept at shield designs and sign work, and 
can make almost any sort of furniture. The 
cabinet maker will happily do commis 
sioned work of any sort, but he is not inter 
ested in adventuring, of course, nor is his 
apprentice. 

The folk here follow the Old Faith. The 



cabinet maker and his apprentice are both 
militiamen. A small cache of 18 pp, 21 gp, 
and 30 ep is kept under a rock near the back 
door. 

Cabinet maker: AC 6 (ring mail Ik shield); 
Level 0; hp 6; #AT 1; D 1-6 (spear) or 2-8 
(morning star); XP 16 

Apprentice: AC 7 (padded armor Ik shield); 
Level 0; hp 3; #AT 1; D 1-6 (spear or 
club); XP 13 

17. MODEST COTTAGE 

A potter is busily engaged in the manu 
facture of various sorts of dishes and ves 
sels, although most of his work goes to 
passing merchants or the trader. He has a 
variety of earthenware bottles and flasks 
available for sale. The potter, his wife, and 
four children all work in the business. 

The potter and his two eldest sons are 
militiamen. A crock hidden in the well holds 
40 sp, 27 gp, and six agates (three banded 
and three mossy) worth 10 gp each. The 
family is of the congregation of St. 
Cuthbert. 

Potter: AC 7 (padded armor Ik shield); 
Level 0; hp 3; #AT 1; D 1-6 (glaive); XP 
13 

Sons (2): AC 8 (padded armor); Level 0, hp 
4, 2, #AT 1; D 1-6 (spear) or 1-4 (light 
crossbow, ranges 6 "/12"/18"); XP 18, 
16 

18. TYPICAL COTTAGE AND IMPOS 
ING STONE BUILDING WITH A 
BARREL HANDING FROM CHAINS 

This house is the home of the local 
braumeister and his wife and young child. A 
nephew and his wife have recently come to 
help run the affair, as it is very successful. 
At night, a large dog runs free in the house. 

The brew house has a cellar for aging. 
Several vats are on the main floor, and the 
side sheds hold ingredients. Three appren 
tice brewers dwell in the brewhouse attic. 

The family members are all of the Old 
Faith, as are two of the apprentices. The 
third is a recent convert to the faith of St. 
Cuthbert. 

The apprentices brew the various ales and 
beers under the direction of the Braumeister, 
and can drink almost anyone (except the 


10 






master and his nephew) under the table. The 
apprentices, the braumeister, and his 
nephew are all militiamen. 

The family owns a dinner service of ster 
ling silver (worth 6,000 gp) and a gold 
decanter (worth 1,250 gp). A small iron cof 
fer hidden in an upper closet contains 73 pp, 
three huge white pearls (500 gp each), and 
three pieces of jewelry (500, 1000, and 1800 
gp). The apprentices own only a few cop 
pers among them. 

Braumeister: AC 5 (scale fk shield); Level 0; 
hp 6; #AT 1; D 1-6 (spear) or 2-7 (mace); 

Nephew: AC 6 (ring mail Ik shield); Level 0; 
hp 5; #AT 1; D 1-6 (spear or 
shortsword); XP 15 

Apprentices (3); AC 10; Level 0; hp 4, 3, 3, 
#AT 1; D 1-6 (spear or club) or 2-8 
(morning star); XP 14, 13, 13 

Dog: AC 6; HD 2 + 2; hp 12; #AT 1; D 2-8; 
XP71 

19. MODEST COTTAGE 

Three dogs guard this, the home of the 
grizzled herdsman Black Jay, and his flock. 
The herdsman does not like company or 
strangers, and says so to any who come 
onto his property. 

This retired warrior is friendly with the 
elves to the northwest, but will not partake 
of any adventuring. His house was raided, 
and his wife and children slain, when he was 
away in the wars. His possessions are few; 
he has only his armor and weapons, a few 
coins in his purse (20 cp, 19 sp, 8 ep, 11 gp, 
and 4 pp), an old jar in his cupboard, and a 
few magic items-10 arrows +1, elven 
boots, and an elven cloak. 

Dogs (3): AC 7; HD 1 +1; hp 7, 5, 4, #AT 1; 
D 1-4; XP 34, 30, 28 

Herdsman: AC 4 (chain fk shield); Level 2 
Fighter; hp 11; #AT 1 or 2; D 2-9 (long- 
sword or 1-6/1-6 (longbow, ranges 7"/ 
14"/21 ");XP58 

S 17 I 13 W 12 D 15 Co 11 Ch 10 

20. CHURCH OF ST. CUTHBERT 

This newly built edifice was raised by the 
viscount, in honor of the aid rendered to 
him by the Archcleric of Veluna during the 
war against the Temple of Elemental Evil. A 



somewhat distant cleric and his assistant 
officiate during services and otherwise serve 
their flock. Other than at services, anyone 
coming to the church must deal with the 
lesser cleric, the priest Calmert. Holy water 
can only be obtained here or from the trader 
(area 13, who purveys plain water as holy). 

The honest Calmert is known for his zeal 
in obtaining contributions. He is anxious to 
give a sum to the builders of the fortress 
under construction. Though it should seem 
otherwise, most of the miscellaneous money 
he collects for the church 1 will go towards 
building the castle! 

The Canon Terjon (who owns rings of 
invisibility and mammal control) recently 
became the chief cleric of the church, taking 
over from the Canoness Y'dey, who left 
unexpectedly and has not returned. The vil 
lagers say that Terjon is not particularly 
friendly and his stern demeanor is a cause of 
some speculation. 

Detailed information on the Canoness 
Y'dey is given in the Nulb encounter key 
(Area 3). For more information on the 
church, see Map 5 and the detailed room 
key of Area 20. 

Calmer: AC 2 (plate fk shield); Level 3 
Cleric; hp 14; #AT 1; D 3-8 (mace +1); 
XP 215 

S81 10W 16 D 15Co9Ch 11 
Spells usually carried: 

First level: bless, command, detect evil, 
detect magic 

Second level: chant, know alignment, 
silence 15' radius 

Terjon: AC 4; Level 6 Cleric; hp 41; #AT 1; 
D3-8 (mace +1); XP 796 
S 11 I 10W 16 D 12 Co 16 Ch 8 
Spells usually carried: 

First level: bless, command, cure light 
wounds, detect magic, sanctuary 
Second level: hold person (x2), know align 
ment, silence 15' radius, slow poison 
Third level: cure disease, dispel magic 

21. COTTAGE AND LARGE BARN 

These well-kept buildings are obviously 
those of a cowherd, and a particular odor is 
quite noticeable in the area. The farmer, his 
wife, his aged mother, and seven children 
have a dairy, making and selling cheese. The 
trader and the inn take what does not sell to 
passing merchants, so very little is available 
to individual purchasers. 



The farmer and his three eldest sons are 
militiamen. The family is part of the congre 
gation of St. Cuthbert. Linder the floor of 
the cheese storage shed is a sack containing 
189 cp and 42 sp. 

Farmer: AC 8 (leather); Level 0; hp 5; #AT 
1; D 1-6 (hand axe) or 1-8 (military fork), 
XP15 

Eldest Son: AC 8 (leather); Level 0; hp 6; 
#AT 1; D 2-8 (morning star) or 1-6 
(club); XP 16 

Younger Sons (2): AC 7 (leather fk shield); 
Level 0; hp 4, 3, #AT 1; D 2-8 (guisarme) 
or 1-4 (sling stone); XP 18, 17 

22. MILL AND ATTACHED HOME 

Here dwell Mytch, his wife, three chil 
dren, and two servants. They grind grain 
into flour, of course, and goodwife miller 
also does some bread baking for the village. 
A large dog is kept inside the millhouse. 

These folk are of the Old Faith, pillars of 
the community, and tend to be cool toward 
strangers-suspicious with good cause. 
Mytch and one of the servants are militia 
men. The miller has saved a store of gems 
(two chrysoberls, two spinels, five garnets 
and a tourmaline, each worth 100 gp), and 
keeps them in a hidden niche within an old 
millstone. 

Miller: AC 5 (scale fk shield); Level 0; hp 4; 
#AT 1; D 1-6 (spear or shortsword); XP 
14 

Servant: AC 8 (leather); Level 0; hp 5; #AT 2 
or 1; D 1-6/1-6 (arrows) or 1-8 (battle 
axe); XP 19 

Dog: AC 7; HD 2; hp 10; #AT 1; D 2-5; XP 
40 

23. COTTAGE AND SMALL BARN 

A somewhat reclusive farmer, his spinster 
daughter and son dwell here. They are not 
particularly successful at farming, but are 
excellent fishers, trappers and hunters. The 
villagers are not particularly fond of these 
folk. 

The farmer and his son are militiamen. 
The spinster daughter is only in her twen 
ties, and is handsome but bossy. These peo 
ple do not follow any religious persuasion, 
so they are excluded from most village func 
tions. They have saved 73 sp in a hollow of 
a tree to the north. 


11 





Farmer: AC 8 (padded armor); Level 0; hp 
3; #AT 1; D 1-8 (fauchard-fork); XP 13 

Daughter: AC 10; Level 1 Fighter; hp 8; #AT 
1; Dl-4 (dagger) or 2-5 (sling bullet); XP 22 

Son: AC 8 (padded armor); Level 0; hp 5; 
#AT 1; D 1-6 (staff) or 2-5 (sling bullet); 
XP 19 

24. THE GROVE 


This is obviously a place of worship. The 
trees are neatly pruned, and the grass is 
well tended. A carefully placed line of 
bluish stones sets off the path leading to a 
rock cairn where flowers, nuts, berries, 
and garlands of leaves are placed. A 
small path leads beyond the shrine to a 
low-roofed wooden building placed 
under the great boughs of the central 
oaks of the copse. 


A call will bring forth the druid, Jaroo 
Ashstaff. All comers to the Grove are 
expected to make an offering here and there 
(and the druid will remind them, if neces 
sary). If the visitors are not of the Old Faith, 
they are expected to give several gold pieces 
to Jaroo as donations towards the needy of 
Hommlet. The druid will listen to requests 
for assistance from those who contribute. 

Jaroo is an agent of the druids of Gnarley 
Wood, sent to Hommlet to see if the Temple 
of Elemental Evil is totally destroyed, and to 
help repress any rise of evil of that sort. He 
will give aid by spells, but will not accom 
pany a party. If the visitors are suspicious 
sorts, Jaroo will follow at a distance to see 
what goes on. He has a huge black bear, 
which is always nearby but out of sight 95 % 
of the time. 

Hidden in his cottage are a scroll of 1 spell 
(weather summoning), a potion ofinvulner- 
ability, and a decanter of endless water. 
Stored in a stone box beneath the floor of 
the root cellar are 42 gems worth a total of 
16,380 gp (seven moss agates, one ame 
thyst, three bloodstones, two carnelians, 
two citrines, five black opals, three blue 
opals, two fire opals, two black pearls, two 
white pearls, four sapphires, one topaz, six 
turquoise, and two zircons). The box is fire 
trapped (D ld4 + 7, 1/2 normal chances of 
detection; q. v. Players Handbook pg. 77). 



Jaroo Ashstaff: AC 6 (padded armor); Level 
7 Druid; hp 44; #AT 1; D by weapon or 
spell; XP 1427; cloak ofprotection +2, 
ring of invisibility, staff of the serpent 
(python), scimitar +1 
S 11 I 11 W 18 D 9 Co 15 Ch 15 
Standard druid abilities: identify plant type, 
animal type, pure water; pass without 
trace; immune to woodland charm; sha- 
pechange 3 times per day; +2 bonus to 
saving throws vs. lightning; q. v. Players 
Handbook page 21. 

Spells normally memorized: 

First level: detect magic, entangle, faerie 
fire, invisibility to animals, pass without 
trace, speak with animals 
Second level: barkskin, charm person or 
mammal, cure light wounds, heat metal, 
trip, warp wood 

Third level: cure disease, neutralize poison, 
summon insects, tree 

Fourth level: cure serious wound, plant 
door 

Black bear: AC 7; HD 3 + 3; hp 25; #AT 3; D 
1-3/1-3/1-6; SA Hug (if paw hit 18 + ) 
Dmg 2-8; XP 185 

25. LARGE BARN AND CONNECTED 
HOME 

This place is obviously that of a herds 
man. His wife is dead, but a full grown son 
and his wife care for the five children. A 
cousin helps to tend the flocks, and he has 
brought two dogs along. These folk are 
friendly, but are not interested in adventure 
and have little interest in the way of goods. 
They all follow the Old Faith. 

The herdsman, his son, and his cousin are 
all militiamen. The herdsman has managed 
to save 33 cp and 9 gp, which he has stored 
away in a small wooden box hidden in the 
rafters of the upper main room. He and the 
druid of the Grove are good friends. 

Herdsman: AC 8 (padded armor); Level 0; 
hp 4; AT 1; D 1-6 (hand axe or fauchard); 
XP 14 

Son: AC 8 (leather); Level 0; hp 4; #AT 1 or 
2; D 1-6 (spear) or 1-6/1-6 (shortbow, 
ranges 5710 /15 ); XP 18 

Cousin: AC 9 (shield); Level 0; hp 2; #AT 1; 
D 1-6 (spear); XP 12 

Dogs (2): AC 7; HD 1 +1; hp 5, 4, #AT 1; D 
1-4; XP 30, 28 



26. BARN-LIKE HOUSE WITH A WHEEL 
NAILED TO A POST 

This is the residence and shop of the local 
wheel and wainwright. The main part of the 
structure is a barn where he builds and 
repairs carts and wagons. The artisan, his 
small child, and two helpers live in the side 
apartment. His wife is dead, and his helpers 
are his nephews. 

All the men are in the militia. These folk 
are followers of St. Cuthbert. The elder 
tends to drink too much, but is good- 
hearted. He has 140 sp set aside for his little 
daughters dowry, the sum being kept in a 
pouch hanging in a back closet. 

Wainwright: AC 7 (leather fk shield); Level 
0; hp 6; #AT 1; D 1-8 (battle axe); XP 16 

Nephews (2): AC 8 (padded armor); Level 0; 
hp 3, 2; #AT 1; D 1-6 (spear); XP 13, 12 

27. WALLED MANOR HOUSE 


This place has an eight foot high stone 
wall and a heavy gate, it is obviously the 
residence of some well-to-do folk, and 
easily defensible in times of trouble. 


This is the home of the village elder, his 
wife, and their four grown sons. Two of the 
sons are married, and their wives and three 
children live here also. The elder is a retired 
farmer, and his sons now care for the fields 
and livestock. All of his sons have horses, 
and are very proud of their status. Two ser 
vant girls and a hired farmhand are quar 
tered in the stable loft. 

All the inhabitants are of the Old Faith. 
The four sons and the hired hand are mem 
bers of the militia. In the event of attack vil 
lagers nearby seek safety in this compound. 

The elder is quite wise and greatly 
respected. He heads a council whose other 
members (in order of seniority) are- 

Jaroo, the druid of the Grove (24) 

Terjon, chief cleric of the church (20) 

Elmo's father, Captain of the militia (2) 
Ostler, the Innkeeper (7) 

Mytch, the Miller (22) 

Burne, the magic-user (31) 

Rufus, Burne's associate (31) 


12 







The latter two are new arrivals to the 
council. 

The elder is also the justice of the Peace. 
Once each new moon, he holds a village 
meeting to hear ideas and complaints. 

In a secret compartment in the bedroom is 
an iron box which contains 428 gp, 100 pp, 
and four pieces of jewelry (worth 400, 900, 
2000, and 5000 gp). His silver dinnerware is 
valued at 3,750 gp, and the several gold 
dishes are worth a total of 2, 300 gp. The 
elder and his sons each carry about 10 gp 
worth of various coins in their purses. 

Sons (4): AC 5 (scale Ik shield); Level 0; hp 
5, 4, 4, 3; #AT 1; D 1-8 (longsword) or 1- 
6 (spear); XP 15, 14, 14, 13 

Hired hand: AC 8 (padded armor); Level 0; 
hp 2; #AT 1; D 1-6 (hand axe) or 2-5 
(heavy crossbow 8'/16"/24"); XP 16 

28. LARGE NEW BUILDING 


The sign before this place shows a saw 
and hammer. The building appears 
newly constructed. 


This new home is the shop and residence 
of the local carpenter, his wife, and his 
younger brother. The carpenter often works 
for other craftsmen in town, and is cur 
rently at work on barrel staves. As is typical 
of most townsfolk, he is too busy to think of 
adventuring. 

Having come to the village about two 
years ago, this family is considered outside' 
folk, and will be until their beards grow 
gray. The carpenter and his brother are nev 
ertheless militiamen. All three are followers 
of St. Cuthbert. The woman owns a silver 
chain with 12 silver coins (worth 25 gp). 

Carpenter: AC 6 (studded leather &. shield); 
Level 0; hp 4; #AT 1; D 1-8 (battle axe); 
XP 14 

Brother: AC 8 (padded armor); Level 0; hp 
3; #AT 1; D 1-6 (hand axe) or 2-7 (spe- 
tum); XP 13 

29. STONE HOUSE 


This well-crafted stone dwelling seems 
recently built. It is set off from the road by 
a low stone wall. No animals are seen, but 
some children are playing in the yard. 





The stonemason, another of the 
recent newcomers to Hommlet, 
built this home. His wife and two 
children are here, but he and his 
three apprentices are at work 
building the new castle on the low 
hillocks to the southeast (area 31). 

These folks are of the Old Faith. 

The mason and his apprentices are 
militiamen. The mason has 
offered to help with the working of 
several large monoliths for the 
Grove after the castle is finished. 

The mason is well-regarded in 
Hommlet. 

He has become quite friendly 
with the magic-user, Burne. He 
has 20 gold ingots (worth 50 gp 
each) hidden in a secret hollow 
under the stone wall out front. 

Stonemason: AC 4 (chain fk shield); Level 0; 
hp 6; #AT 1; D 2-7 (military pick); XP 16 

Apprentices (3): AC 10; Level 0; hp 5, 3, 2; 
#AT 1; D 2-5 (hammer) or 1-6 (club); XP 
15; 13, 12 

30. DOUBLE FIELDSTONE WALLS 
FILLED WITH EARTH 

Here are the beginnings of a smallish cas 
tle, being built around a new tower atop the 
low mound. Workers have dug deep trench 
lines about ten feet wide and as deep, down 
to a hard clay. They seem to be in the proc 
ess of mortaring the foundations of the wall 
to be built above. Work has barely begun, 
but the outlines of bastions, towers, a gate 
house and a keep can be noted. 

The keep is atop the second hillock, and 
considerable excavation has taken place. 
The earth from this digging has been used in 
the walls around the whole. Some dressed 
stone blocks are visible, but not similar to 
local stone. 

The whole is being financed by the Vis 
count and the Archcleric of Veluna, for 
favors done by the owners of the tower 
(which they also built), Burne and Rufus. 
These two will, in turn, serve the Viscount 
by holding the area safe for him and report 
ing on any untoward happenings. 


31. TWO-STORIED TOWER 


This structure is some 55 feet tall, a 
smaller tower rising inside the greater at 
about 35 feet above the ground. Its 
entrance is accessible only by going up a 
curving flight of stone stairs which termi 
nate in a landing about 10 feet above the 
ground. The outer door of the tower 
lowers to form a bridge to the stone land 
ing. There are numbers of arrow slits 
around the tower, and it has a splay 
around the base to about 6 feet in height. 

The lower and upper battlements are 
machicolated, the merlons being pierced 
for archery as well. Two men-at-arms 
watch from its roof. 


See Map 6 for a floor plan, and refer to 
Area 31 for a detailed room key. 

Inside dwell Rufus the Fighter and Burne 
the magic-user. Both came to Hommlet 
some three years ago, and had considerable 
success in adventuring. They defeated a 
large bandit force which had plagued Verbo- 
bonc, and it is rumored that they gained 
considerable treasure in killing a green 
dragon which preyed in the Kron Hills to 
the west. 

These two are friends of all the important 
folk in the village, it is well known that they 
are tough and very cautious, but willing to 
give some aid to adventurers for a price. 


13 







All sorts of standard equipment is stored 
in the keep, and both Burne and Rufus have 
odd potions and scrolls as well. 

Burne, 'His Most Worshipful Mage of 
Hommlet 1 : The magic-user is Lawful Good, 
clever, but a trifle on the greedy side. All 
services he renders will be paid for hand 
somely. He is a follower of St. Cuthbert, 
and very conscious of his duty to protect the 
village and to watch for evil. His adventur 
ing (if any) will be calculated to accomplish 
those ends and gain him a third of the trea 
sure found as well. He is not likely to risk his 
life or be duped. Burne is on the young side 
fora magic-user, average in appearance and 
dress, and will often frequent the Inn of the 
Welcome Wench. 

Rufus: The fighter is also Lawful Good. 
When he reaches 8th level, he is to return to 
Verbobonc for special service on the Vis 
count's behalf. He will not risk his life nor 
become involved in foolish adventures, if he 
renders service to a party, he requires not 
less than 20% of the total treasure gained. 
Rufus leads a squad of men-at-arms, and 
has been appointed as the overall com 
mander of the village troops as well. 

Burne: AC 8 (ring of protection +2); Level 8 
Magic-User; hp 30; #AT 1; D 3-6 (dagger 
+ 1) or by spell; XP 2025; carries chime 
of opening (51 charges), wand of magic 
missiles (49 charges). 

S 15 I 17 W 11 D 10 Co 15 Ch 12 

Spells: 

First level: burning hands, detect magic, 
feather fall, jump (comprehend lan 
guages, light, read magic) 

Second level: levitate, mirror image, scare 
(darkness 15' radius, detect invisibility, 
strength) 

Third level: dispel magic, fireball, tongues 
(gust of wind, infravision) 

Fourth level: fumble, wall of fire (dimension 
door, plant growth) 

Spells normally carried are given first; other 
spells in Burne's spellbook are given in 
parentheses. 

Rufus: AC 2 (chain +1, shield +1); Level 6 
Fighter; hp 32; #AT 1; D 3-10 (battle axe 
+ 1); XP 692; carries dust of disappear 
ance (12 doses), carnelian scarab of 
proof against poison +2 (identical to the 
periapt in effect) 

S 15 I 10W 10 D 12 Co 12 Ch 14 


32. TENTS AND WATTLE HUTS 

Some dozen temporary shelters are along 
the edge of this copse of trees. They house 
ten peasant laborers and associated train- 
women, children, stray dogs, etc. They are 
the workers constructing the new castle. A 
few villagers also work on the project from 
time to time; each puts in half a day's labor 
once per week. 

Whenever a load of materials is sent from 
Verbobonc, six new laborers arrive with it, 
and a like number then return to that town 
with the empty wagons. 

One of the laborers is an agent evil, spy 
ing on this activity for the traders (area 13). 
He secretly meets with them to give reports 
as needed. After the tower is complete, he is 
expected to work for the traders as a guard, 
in garb that will probably leave his duplicity 
undetected. 

Agent: AC 10; Level 2 Fighter; hp 14; #AT 
1; D 3-6 (dagger +1) or 1-6 (club); XP48; 
S 17 1 12 W 7 D 12 Co 16 Ch 11 

33. OVERGROWN TRACK 

This leads off into the rugged hills and 
tangled scrub above the town. About a 
league away (2-3 miles) is a ruined moat 
house, a former warning post for the 
destroyed Temple. The moat house is a fully 
detailed area for exploration; refer to Part 
1A and Maps 7 and 8. 

Detailed 

Buildings 

Area 7. Inn of the Welcome Wench (Map 3) 
Area 13. Traders' Establishment (Map 4) 
Area 20. Church of St. Cuthbert (Map 5) 
Area 31. Guard Tower (Map 6) 

To prevent confusion, all room numbers 
are by a letter code-I (Inn), TP (Trading 
Post), C (Church), or GT (Guard Tower). 

AREA 7. THE INN OF THE WELCOME 

Menu andWiftNCH 


The cost of food and drink at the Wel 
come Wench is higher than usual, it is the 
only inn for many miles, the place is 


renowned and its food better than average, 
and the area is prosperous. Choice venison, 
mutton, poached salmon, trout stuffed with 
specially prepared mixtures, goose roasted 
to a golden brown, pork, steaming sau 
sages, steak and kidney pie with mush 
rooms or truffles, squab stuffed pheasant, 
and boiled crayfish in drawn butter are just 
a few of the epicurian delights which are 


expected and served here. 

The locally 

brewed ale and beer is supplemented by 
brews from other sites, and wine, mead and 
brandy from all over the Flanaess make 
their way to the boards of the Welcome 

Wench. 


Meals are served on pottery, pewter, or 
copper services, according to the order. Var 
ious leather jacks, pottery mugs, wooden 
tankards, pewter steins, glass flagons, crys- 

tal goblets, or silver chalices 
potables. 

are used for 

Meals 


Breakfast, plain 

5 cp 

Breakfast, elaborate 

2 s 

Dinner, plain 

5 sp 

Dinner, elaborate 

1 ep 

Dinner, 7 course 

2 gP 

Supper, plain 

3 sp 

Supper, elaborate 

7 sp 

Common Drink(per pint) 


Ale 

2 sp 

Ale, special 

1 ep 

Beer, small 

5 cp 

Beer, heavy 

1 sp 

Mead 

1 ep 

Mead, special brew 

15 sp 

Wines(per pint) 


Table, local 

1 ep 

Keoish golden 

15 sp 

Sundish lilac 

5 ep 

Urnst white 

1 gP 

Celene ruby 

2 gP 

Furyondian emerald pale 

4 gP 

Velunan fireamber 

1 pp 

Brandies(per gill) 


Local 

1 ep 

Keoish 

1 gP 

Urnst(special aged) 

3 gP 

Liqueur 


Ulek Elixir, 1/2 gill 

5 gP 




Rooms 

The upper rooms are very clean, and all 
except the common dormitory are heated. 
Each has a fine bed, many covers, wash 
stand, chamber pot, towels, pegs for gar 
ments, and several chairs and stools. The 
larger rooms have arm chairs, tables, foot 
stools, bed warmers, curtained beds, and 
good rugs on the floor and wall hangings as 
well. The cost of each is shown in the key to 
the second floor. 

FIRST FLOOR 

11. Common Room 


This large place is bright and cheerful. It 
contains several rough-hewn tables and 
chairs, boards, and benches. Natural 
tree trunk pillars support the ceiling 
overhead, all dark with smoke and age. 
A motley group of people is here. 


In the daytime, half of the 4-16 customers 
in the place are travelers (merchants, tin 
kers, peddlers, etc.), and half are local folk. 
In the evening, double the number rolled, 
with a 50% chance that the NPCs who have 
chambers above (areas 1, 5, and 9) are in the 
common room. Roll for each NPC once per 
hour. Several barmaids and potboys circu 
late, bringing viands and drink, taking 
away the empty plates and flagons, stoking 
the fire if the day is chill, and so forth. 

I 2. Private Room 

This chamber is for visiting noblemen, 
rich merchants, and the like. It contains a 
long table and comfortable side chairs. It is 
also used by those wishing to have a private 
meal. It is nicely furnished, with tapestries 
and paintings on the walls. 

13. Private Room 

This place is generally kept aside by 
Ostler Gundigoot for those of his patrons 
who wish privacy to confer, game, or what 
ever. It is in a dark and inconspicuous cor 
ner. A secret door, a press and slide upwards 
panel, gives way to a narrow stone staircase 
leading down to a secret room in the cellar. 
This place was used extensively during the 
time of trouble with the Temple of Elemental 
Evil, but is now in disuse, and few of the vil 
lage folk know of it. 



14. Bar 

This is the proprietor's usual station. He 
sees to the filling of Jacks of ale, tankards of 
beer, and flagons of wine. Boiled eggs, 
cheeses, and hard biscuits or crackers are 
often atop the trestle. Serving girls carry the 
food from here to the common room. There 
are great barrels of ale and beer, tuns of 
wine, and a cask of brandy with spigots 
ready at the host's hand. A box under the 
bar holds 61 cp, 33 sp, 17 ep, 47 gp, and 11 
pp in separate compartments. This ready 
money is taken upstairs each night. Gundi 
goot keeps about 100 gp worth of various 
coins in his apron pockets. 

I 5. Kitchen 

The huge fireplace usually has various 
pots and kettles within, a roast turning, and 
several fowl kept warm in its side places. 
Goodwife Gundigoot is in charge here, 
keeping cook and scullions hopping. At the 
west end are the steps leading down to the 
cellar and up to the private apartment of the 
owner. 

UPPER FLOOR 

I 6. Private Room 

This chamber is rented by Zert, a fighter 
who is ostensibly awaiting the return of a 
caravan from the south, but who is actually 
a Chaotic Evil spy for the Temple. The trad 
ers (area 13) know who and what Zert really 
is, but he does not know that they are also 
pawns of Evil. Zert will happily go with 
adventurers for an equal share of treasure. 
He will as readily betray them, help to slay 
them, and take their goods. He has double 
the capacity of an ordinary man, able to 
drink great quantities without becoming 
drunk. He carries 20 gp in his purse. His 
medium warhorse and lance are in the sta 
ble. Saddlebags on the table herein hold 
other garments. A pouch in plain view 
holds 27 sp, 12 ep, and 40 gp. Hidden in a 
locked coffer under some of his clothing are 
265 gp, 100 pp, and 10 pearls, each black 
but flawed (worth 100 gp each, but seeming 
5 to 10 times that value to the unskilled or 
casual observer). 

Zert: AC 4 (scale mail &. shield); Level 2 
Fighter; hp 12; #AT 1; D 1-8 (sword) or 



1-4 (dagger); AL CE; XP 52 
S 16 1 13W9D 15 Co 11 Ch 10 

I 7. Private Suite 

The noble or wealthy rent this suite for 5 
gp per night, breakfast furnished. The outer 
room is a sitting room with table and chairs. 
The inner has a huge feather bed, chairs, 
and a closet. 

I 8. Private Room 

This simple room costs 2 gp per night. 

I 9. Private Room 

This simple room has an extra table and 
chairs, for 5 ep per night. 

I 10. Private Room 

This place is currently the lodgings of 
Spugnoir, an Evoker. He came into the vil 
lage with a merchant wagon, and is staying 
in hopes of gathering spells, for he knows 
only detect magic, read magic, and sleep. A 
large trunk holds his clothing, professional 
paraphernalia, and a fair assortment of 
dungeon exploration materials (DM's 
choice). He has learned that a warlock was 
housed in the ruined moat house, and plans 
to quietly search it. His garb is nondescript, 
as he does not wish to attract attention nor 
be recognized as a magic-user. His funds 
currently amount to 7 sp, 9 gp, 11 pp, and 
three zircons (50 gp each). The coins are in 
his wallet, and the gems are secreted in the 
hem of his cloak, if approached, he will 
claim to be working for a sage, and will go 
with the party if offered all the scrolls 
found. Otherwise, he will attempt to 
shadow the party and glean what he can. 

Spugnoir: AC 9; Level 2 Magic-User; hp 4; 
#AT 1; D 1-4 (dagger); XP 36; 

S 11 I 15 W 11 D 15 Co 14 Ch 7 

I 11. Private Room 

This simple place has an extra table and 
chairs, for 5 ep per night. 

I 12. Private Room 

This sparse room costs 1 gp per night. 


15 







I 13. Private Room 

This comfortable room is the quarters of 
one Furnok of Ferd, a 'treasure finder'. He 
loves to gamble, in part since he knows how 
to nick cards and has a pair of loaded 
knucklebones. (This gives him a 60% prob 
ability of winning at cards, and 75% at 
dice.) He is careful to play so as to not be 
caught cheating, and makes a modest living 
thus, mostly skinning passing merchants. 

If offered a chance to adventure, Furnok 
is willing to go along for an equal share (plus 
all he can surreptitiously lift, particularly 
magic items, which he covets). To show his 
good faith, however, he will put up a scroll 
of protection from magic, hoping to parlay 
it into far more. If the worst should come, 
he has a dagger +1 hidden in his boot. 

Furnok's funds consist of a small hoard of 
37 gems worth 50 gp each (three blood 
stones, eight carnelians, four chalcedon, 
four citrines, six onyx, and nine zircons), 
and 12 sp and 12 gp for gambling. He also 
has a ring of invisibility and the aforemen 
tioned scroll and dagger. 

Furnok: AC 4 (leather); Level 4 Thief; hp 

18; #AT 1; D 1-6 (shortsword) or 2-5 

(dagger + 1, AL N; XP 207 
S 8 I 14 W 10 D 18 Co 15 Ch 13 

I 14. Private Room 

This place houses a strange pair-a hulk 
ing fighter, Kobort byname, and his associ 
ate, a small and thin fellow called Turuko, a 
Bakluni from unknown parts. Kobort car 
ries a longsword and dagger, and keeps his 
lance, flail, and battle axe in the stables with 
his heavy warhorse. Turuko keeps his two 
daggers and quarterstaff handy at all limes. 
They currently have only 40 cp, 5 sp, and 12 
gp between them. 'Something must be done 
soon! 1 says Turuko. 

Kobort was passing through when he fell 
in with the monk. Turuko convinced;he 
huge fellow that he could make them 
wealthy and famous. The monk believes 
himself to be highly clever. His plan is to 
waylay and rob adventurers returning from 
a successful expedition to the ruined moat 
house, for he knows that there are monsters 
and treasure there. 

The pair will try to accompany a small 
party, hang back during fights, and then 
slay the characters when they are weak 
ened. They will otherwise spy on a large 



group, and attack only if it is reduced by 
deaths and wounds. 

Kobort: AC 0 (splint mail &. shield); Level 2 
Fighter; hp 20; #AT 1; D by weapon; AL 
N; XP 60; 

S 18/10 I 6 W8D 17 Co 16 Ch 11 

Turuko: AC 8; Level 3 Monk; hp 11; MV 
17"; #AT 1; D 1-6 (hand or quarterstaff) 
or 1-4 (dagger); AL LE; XP 113; 

S 15 19 W 15 D 15 Co 11 Ch 5 

I 15. Dormitory Sleeping Room 

Here most of the lesser travelers can 
spend a warm and a safe night for a mere sil 
ver piece. The place has a dozen pallets, and 
in the morning the table in the center is 
loaded with hot tea and fresh loaves at no 
extra cost. Even these folks receive warm 
water and clean towels for morning ablu 
tions; such is the quality of the Welcome 
Wench inn! There are always 2-12 (or more) 
sleeping here. 

116. Spare Room 

This place is rented if the inn is exception 
ally crowded, but it is normally the quarters 
for the potboys and scullions, for Ostler 
Gundigoot is a very kind master. On cold 
nights he will have a fire in the room, too! 

I 17. Serving Wenches Room 

Though this chamber has cots for four, 
two wenches currently share the room. 
When the season arrives, one or two likely 
lasses will be hired on. 

I 18. Gundigoot's Children's Room 

The host's two young daughters are quar 
tered here, under the watchful eye of Good- 
wife Gundigoot. 

I 19. Gundigoot's Chamber 

In addition to bed, dresser, and armoire, 
Ostler Gundigoot and his wife have a small 
side room where accounts are kept and the 
riches are stored. A small secret compart 
ment in the north wall holds a locked iron 
box. Inside are six pieces of jewelry worth a 
total of 16,000 gp (1, 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 thou 
sand gp), and two sacks of coins, one of 
gold (400) and one of platinum (100). 



A ladder leads to the loft over this small 
portion of the place, and a concealed door 
from there leads to the attic of the inn 
proper, if anyone of highly suspicious nat 
ure appears in the place, Gundigoot will get 
the druid of the Grove to spy upon the room 
concerned by means of small sliding ceiling 
panels. 

1 20. Parlor 

This is the living and dining area for the 
Gundigoot family. It has heavy furniture, 
polished brass pieces (candlesticks et al.), 
tapestries, and so forth which show com 
fortable affluence. 

CELLAR 

I 21. Storage Area 

Here are sacks of various stuff for the 
kitchen, boxes of linens, barrels of flour, 
and so forth. Herbs and other items are 
hung from the beams overhead. This section 
of the basement is kept warm and dry from 
activity in area 22. 

I 22. Summer Kitchen 

In very hot weather, cooking which can 
not be handled on an outside fire is done 
here. In winter, additional cooking is also 
done here, so the area is dry and warmer 
than the rest of the cellar. Scullions and 
menials sometimes sleep here. Various food 
stuffs are stored in cupboards, as are extra 
plates, platters, etc. 

I 23. Locked Storage 

A well and heavy stone wall keep this 
room cool, where perishable cheeses, but 
ter, meats, and such are kept. Smaller bar 
rels of ale, beer, mead, and table wine are 
also in this room. 

I 24. Locked Storage 

This is the wine cellar. The rarest wines 
and brandies in butts and tuns are along the 
walls. Shelving in the center holds small 
casks and pottery jars of the same. 

I 25. Main Cellar 

Various old furniture and unused items 
are stored here and there, along with empty 


16 





crates, hogshead and barrels, rusty tools, an 
old wheelbarrow, and miscellany. A large sup 
ply of cordwood is stacked to either hand just 
at the entry so as to assure plenty of dry fuel 
for the many fireplaces of the hostel. 

I 26. Huge Casks 

In addition to a number of empty kegs, 
barrels, hogsheads, pipes, butts, and tuns, 
three great casks are here. Two have dregs of 
wine in them, but the third is empty. A por 
tion of its side swings up to allow entry into 
the interior, and a hidden catch allows the 
far end to swing inwards if triggered by 
insertion of a dagger blade in the proper 
crack in the fieldstone wall. 

127. Ashpit 

The sweepings from the fireplace above 
are dumped down here from a chute above. 
They are gathered periodically for use in 
soap making or for fertilizer. Ashes from the 
other fireplaces in the inn are stored here as 
well, since a grinder and separator mecha 
nism are here-and without fire hazard, 
since the place is entirely made of stone and 
iron. Inadvertently discarded valuables are 
sometimes present. 

I 28. Disused Secret Room 

When evil held sway in the territory, this 
place served as the meeting room and head 
quarters of the folk opposed to the Temple. 
It still contains many bunks built along the 
walls, several tables and benches, stools, 
and carefully stored arms, their metal 
greased against rust. Held here against 
future bad times are: 

7 battle axes 

1 bardiche 

2 bill-guisarmes 

7 light crossbows 

12 daggers 

3 glaive-guisarmes 

20 javelins 

3 maces 

2 morning stars 

4 partisans 

130 quarrels 

8 spears 

12 longswords 

12 shortswords 

Food, clothing and bedding are easily 
moved to the place from the inn. Some 10 


bucklers and 17 shields are hung on the 
walls. Helmets and leather jacks (12 of each) 
are kept in a great wooden chest. The ceiling 
of this room is very low compared to the 
rest of the cellar. A false crawl space, 
flagged with stones and a layer of earth, is 
between it and the inn floor above. The 
room is thus nearly soundproof. 

AREA 13. TRADING POST 

Virtually all sorts of saleable goods are 
offered here, if it isn't listed below, include 
any item which seems likely to be in use by 
villagers or demanded commonly by 
dungeon explorers. Rare or unusual items 
can be obtained at a price and in time (and 
will often be spurious and faulty!). Magic 
items are never sold here. Limit all quanti 
ties according to the stock normal for a 
small village. 

TP 1. Clothing and Packs 

Peasant equipment is about 90% of list 
price, rounded down. Dungeoneering items 
are 110% of list, rounded up. 

TP 2. Footwear, Gloves, Belts 

Prices to adventurers will be 125% of list, 
80% to villagers. 

TP 3. Hand Tools 

Hammers, adzes, planes, nails, saws, etc. 
A file sells for 1 sp and up. A saw costs 
about the same as a hand axe. 

TP 4. Lighting Equipment 

Tinderboxes, candles, oil lamps, wicks, 
lanterns, etc. are sold for 110% of list price, 
rounded up. 

TP 5. Food and Herbs 

Rations packed to go are sold for 120% of 
list price. Herbs cost 150% of list. 

TP 6. Ropes, Chains, and Dungeoneering 
Gear; Writing Materials an Religious Items 

Each of these costs 110% of list price. 

TP 7. Pole Arms and Shields 

Each of these costs 110% of list price. 



TP 8. Other Weapons, Missiles, and associ 
ated gear 

Each of these costs 120% of list price. 

TP 9. Armor and Helmets 

Padded, leather and studded leather 
armor are in stock. There is a 70% chance 
that a ring mail jack is available, 50% for a 
suit of scale mail, 30% for chain mail, and 
10% for a suit of banded mail. All are at 
150% of list price. Suits specially ordered 
cost 200% of list price-half in advance, 
waiting time 13-30 days, fit not guaranteed. 
(Use ld6: 1 = too small, 2-5 = fits, 6 = too 
large). 

TP 10. Tack, Harness, Wheelbarrows, 
Dungeon Carts 

Most are available at list price. Dungeon 
carts are at 75% of list, one to a customer! 

TP II. Traders' Quarters 

This room is adequately furnished with 
two comfortable bunks, table and chairs, 
wall shelves and pegs, a chest of drawers, 
and a pair of lockers for personal gear. A 
small locked coffer holds 300 gp, 150 pp, 50 
gems (a mix of amethysts, garnets, pearls, 
and tourmalines, worth 100 gp each), two 
potions of invisibility, a potion of speed, 
and a small black scarab inscribed with the 
glyphs TZGY. (The latter item is a pass into 
an area of the Temple of Elemental Evil, but 
there is only a 20% chance that even a sage 
would recognize it as such.) A portion of the 
outer wall is triggered to swing out at the 
bottom if a small board is slipped sideways. 

TP 12. Barn and Stables 

Refer also to the stable notes, village key 
area 13. Horses, ponies, and mules are sta 
bled here. Various small animals are also 
available here-mice, doves, chickens, etc. 
All livestock prices are 110% of list, war- 
horses 120%. 

TP 13. Barnyard 

Out in the yard are 2-5 sway backed, pot 
bellied, spavined old plugs, with a like num 
ber of vicious, cowardly mongrel dogs. 
These miserable creatures are for sale, at 
70% of list price, as draft horses and hunt- 


17 





ing dogs. The horses are 50% likely to stop 
each turn to rest, and if pushed by hard rid 
ing or a heavy load, 50 % likely to die (check 
every turn). The dogs bite and snap at han 
dlers at every opportunity, and they will 
certainly run away (and return to the trad 
ers) as soon as they are not tied fast. Natu 
rally, the traders will claim that it is a case of 
caveat emptor, or that the dog is absolutely 
another which resembles the one purchased 
only superficially (perhaps adding a spot of 
dye to alter its appearance). 

AREA 20. CHURCH OF ST. CUTHBERT 

MAIN FLOOR 

C 1. Hall 

This is where the faithful come to hear the 
sermon given on Godsday eve. The place is 
floored in well-polished wood, with 
wooden ceiling and pillars extending all the 
way to the roof high overhead. The walls 
are painted in pastoral scenes, and tinted 
glass mosaic windows of many shades of 
color allow light into the hall. There are no 
benches, pews or stools. 

C 2. Processional 

Worshipers, as well as those to be con 
firmed, married, and so forth, are allowed 
to enter this way, led by the cleric or clerics 
concerned, the latter robed and with thuri 
ble and ceremonial billet of bronzewood. 
The floor here is of lighter wood, and the 
walls are deep blue, sprinkled with star- 
bursts in silver leaf. 

C 3. Altar and Sanctuary 

The circular chamber is screened by a 
drape of deep green velvet. Inside is a life- 
sized statue of St. Cuthbert, smiling, the 
great cudgel held high in one hand while the 
left hand beckons the doubter and the faith 
ful alike. Growing ferns and other plants are 
behind this statue, while to either side are 
tree stumps from which the clerics officiate. 
An altar is carved from a single piece of 
bronzewood with billets, star bursts, and 
the sacred sign of the Crumpled Hat. 

The walls are wainscotted with carved 
panels, and the painted walls show various 
marvels performed by St. Cuthbert. A band 
of holy sayings is above the walls and 



wood; if one of the faithful needs guidance 
or advice, small sticks are tossed upon the 
altar, and their confirmation enables the 
cleric to select which holy saying (or combi 
nation) applies. 

Examples include: 

Square corners can be pounded smooth. 
Thick heads are not made of glass. Salva 
tion is better than smart answers. Some 
good folk can understand only one thing. 
Enlightment can penetrate even the helm of 
iron. 

Evil which cannot be removed must be elim 
inated. 

Foolishness can be beaten. 

Lawful correction lies in a stout billet. Capri 
cious behavior brings knots to the heads of 
those lacking wisdom. Preach quietly, but 
have a large cudgel handy. 

C 4. Study and Audience Chamber 

Those entering the church must come 
through this room, except on holidays. The 
lesser cleric, after bidding visitors to be seated 
on hard benches near the door (not on the 
padded chairs near the fireplace), invites them 
to peruse the religious tracts and scrolls on a 
nearby table, and indicates the location of the 
poorbox (which is emptied after each visitor), 
then steps out for 2-12 minutes. Upon return 
ing, the cleric enquires as to the visitors' busi 
ness. If it is with the chief cleric nothing further 
is said until a contribution to the needy is 
given. About 1-10 gp per level of the strongest 
character in the party is a fair amount. Some 
times (50% chance) the person desired is 
unavailable, and the petitioners must return at 
a later time and go through the same routine. 
Injured, sick, or needy folk are not subjected 
to this treatment, but all aid given is always 
for a return according to the recipient's ability. 

C 5. Vestry 

This private chamber is for the rest and 
relaxation of the clerics, as well as for their use 
in dressing for services. Steps lead to the upper 
floor. 

LOWER FLOOR (a high basement area, 
floored) 

C 6. Church Kitchen 

A serving woman and her husband prepare 
meals and care for the churchmens needs 
here. All normal meals are taken here. 



C 7. Meditation Room. 

C 8. Exercise Room 

Club practice is conducted here daily. 

C 9. Sacred Trophies Gallery 

Here are displayed copies of dented hel 
mets, maces, clubs, and knobbed cudgels of 
fame. 

C 10. Cells 

Needy, laity, acolytes, criminals, and 
offenders against the faith can be housed or 
confined in the small rooms here. Each has 
only a peg, pallet, and pail. The tiny win 
dow is barred, and the heavy, iron-bound 
door of each cubicle can be bolted fast from 
the outside. 

UPPER FLOOR 

C 11. Church Library 

Here are many religious and legal works- 
tomes, librams, scrolls, volumes, and so 
forth. Hidden in a thick book entitled Legal 
Affairs in Veluna, 213 to 312 CY is a scroll of 
seven clerical spells (one spell of each level) 
and an amulet of life protection. 

C 12. Upper Hall 

During sermons, visiting clerics can sit 
here in large upholstered chairs and 
couches. 

C 13. Assistant Cleric's Chambers 

Here Calmert and any other underpriests 
find quarters. The room is large and well- 
enough furnished, but many cords and ropes 
hang from the center, with colored wooden 
beads of appropriate size attached to the ends. 
Above, where the tower extends yet another 
30' or so beyond the ceiling overhead, are a 
collection of bells, chimes, and gongs which 
are sounded at certain times of the day (dawn, 
noon, and dusk) and during Godsday services 
in certain melodies and patterns. Calmert sees 
to this requirement. In the room are two cots, 
a brazier, and various miscellaneous furnish 
ings. One of the large black beads is actually a 
lump of platinum of 10 gp weight-Calmert's 
total cache. 


18 





C 14. Chief Priest's Chamber 

This is a comfortably furnished, well- 
appointed room. The mantle of the fireplace 
contains a hidden cache known only to 
Y'dey (Nulb encounter key, area 3). The 
mantle lifts up to reveal compartments 
which hold a bronze neck chain (set with six 
rubies worth 1,000 gp each), an amber cud 
gel (worth 2,500 gp) descending from a 
chain (worth 7,500 gp), a mace +1, and a 
scroll of protection from demons. Terjon 
keeps church funds in a locked iron coffer 
under his bed, which currently holds 546 cp, 
317 sp, 88 ep, 102 gp, and 16 pp. Of all rela 
tively minor contributions, 30% is first 
removed (20% for Terjon, 10% for 
Calmert), and the remainder placed here. 
These are the usual salary amounts; reduce 
them in cases of large grants or gifts to the 
church. 

C 15. Balcony 

From this spot, about 15' above the floor 
below, the chief cleric of the church delivers 
his weekly and special addresses and ser 
mons. 

AREA 31. GUARD TOWER 

GT 1. Main Hall 

This is the entry to the tower on this level. 
The drawbridge is one foot thick oak plank 
ing bound with iron, and is operated by a 
windlass. The small entryway is closed off 
by a stone wall and an inner door of iron. A 
guard is on duty. 

The door is flanked by shuttered arrow 
slits, and two murder holes are in the ceil 
ing. Flanking the inner portal are two fire 
places, where most of the cooking is done 
by two to three servants. The lords of the 
place sit in judgement either here or at a 
table in the curved alcove. Trestle tables can 
be extended down and across to accommo 
date about 40 people when a feast or revel is 
held. Several comfortable chairs are placed 
along the walls, and the walls themselves 
are hung with tapestries and decorated with 
shields, arms, and hunting trophies-12 
shields, four long swords, two broad 
swords, four spears, two battle axes, and 
the heads and horns of various creatures. 
Ramps curving upwards and downwards 
lead to other levels. 



Guard: AC 5 (scale mail 8^ shield); Level 2 
Fighter hp 12; #AT 1; D 1-8 (longsword); 
AL NG; XP 44 

GT 2. Lower Level 

This is the ground level where the outer 
batter (splay) thickens the wall. Here are all 
sorts of supplies-food, ale, beer, wine, oil, 
and so forth. This place is not pierced with 
slits or windows. Ramps lead up and down 
to other levels of the tower. 

GT 3. Dungeon or Cellar Level 

Horses are sometimes stabled here, and 
there are heaps of straw, hay and oats to pro 
vide for their needs. Normally only the steeds 
of Burne and Rufus (light and heavy war- 
horses, respectively) are kept here at night. 
Four cells along the southeast wall are forpris- 
oner retention. Each is closed by an oaken 
door, barred, locked, and chained. In each cell 
are fetters and chains. The secret door leads to 
a small natural cave with a spring. 

UPPER LEVEL 

GT 4. Hall and Ladderway 

The upper levels of the tower can be 
reached from this point by a steep set of 
retractable wooden stairs about three feet 
wide, very similar to a ladder. A guard is on 
duty at the foot of the ladderway. 

Guard: AC 5 (scale mail 8^ shield); Level 2 
Fighter; hp 11; #AT 1; D 1-8 (long 
sword); AL LG; XP 42 

GT 5. Rufus' Chamber 

This is a well-furnished room with a large 
bed, chest, chest of drawers, armoire, and 
wardrobe. A large chair, table, and stool 
complete the furniture. There are rugs and 
skins on the floor, tapestries on the wall, 
and a longbow and quiver of arrows hang 
ing near the bed. The quiver contains 14 
silver-tipped arrows and six magical arrows 
+ 2. Linder a loose stone in the fireplace is an 
iron box with 200 gp, 100 pp, five violet gar 
nets, and five black pearls (each gem worth 
500 gp). 

GT 6. Burne's Chamber 

This room is quite similar to that of 
Rufus, though it is more spartan. A work 
bench occupies so much space that a narrow 
pallet must serve, instead of a comfortable 



bed. Various items of use in magical 
research line the shelves-alembics, beak 
ers, jars, flasks, and the like-most filled 
with strange substances. A clutter of parch 
ments, scrolls, and a few books are spread 
on a table-desk. 

Clumps of dried vegetable matter, 
bunches of herbs, bones, skulls, and bottles 
of fluids fill a wall case, hang from the ceil 
ing, and appear here and there in the clutter. 
Robes, cloaks, and capes of various sorts 
and color are hanging from pegs near the 
entry, where a large black and magical staff 
leans against the wall. (This normal staff 
bears Nystul's magic Aura was cast upon it). 
A box under the pallet holds three daggers 
and a score of darts, and various and sundry 
items of dungeoneering equipment, among 
them six vials of holy water, a silver holy 
symbol, a wand with continual light upon it 
(kept in an ivory tube lined with black vel 
vet), and a silver knife. 

Burne's spell book is camouflaged to appear 
as the seat of the only armchair in the room. A 
flat chest, fastened among the rafters and 
appearing as if part of the flooring overhead, 
contains his wealth. In it are 122 gems worth a 
total of 14,500 gp (five emeralds, eight topaz, 
five aquamarines, four peridots, and 100 
ornamental 10 gp stones) and a locked iron 
coffer which holds 200 gp, a ring set with an 
emerald (3,000 gp total value) and a scroll of 
seven spells. Burne is debating whether to use 
the scroll to expand his spell book, or to save it 
for an emergency. The scroll contains compre 
hend languages, mirror image, pyrotechnics, 
web, suggestion, ice storm, and transmute 
rock to mud. 

PARAPET LEVEL 

GT 7. Hall 

The ladderway from below exits here, 
where an iron door leads to the parapet sur 
mounting the tower. Another ladderway 
extends to the upper level of the turret. A 
barrel of 20 javelins stands beside the door. 

GT 8. Mercenary Captain's Room 

This chamber is sparsely furnished, with a 
score of arrows and five times as many cross 
bow bolts stored near the door. A small coffer 
holds 173 pp and two star sapphires (worth 
1,000 gp each). See 'Burne's Badgers', below, 
for details on the captain. 


19 




GT 9. Mercenary Lieutenant's Room 

This room is much the same as the captain s 
quarters, except that there are eight quivers 
full of arrows here and no bolts. He has a 
purse containing 50 gp, five amethysts, five 
red garnets, four red spinels, and a piece of 
amber (each gem worth 100 gp). 


box which holds their ammunition, 30 
heavy spears, stands nearby. Another chest 
contains rags and pots of oil for the making 
of flaming missiles to fire from the scorpi 
ons. There is usually a guard here. 

Guard: AC 5 (scale mail 1C shield); Level 2 
Fighter; hp 11; #AT 1; D 1-8 (long- 
sword); XP 42 


S 13 1 11 W 13 D 14 Co 11 Ch 14 
Lieutenant: AC 3 (chain 1C shield +1); Level 

4 Fighter; hp 28; #AT 1; D 2-9 (flail); 2-5 
(dagger); or 1-4 (light crossbow, ranges 
6/12/18"); XP222 

5 16 I 9 W 10 D 12 Co 15 Ch 10 

Men-at-Arms 


GT 10. Parapet 

As noted previously, the battlement is 
machicolated. The merlons are pierced for 
archery, and a light catapult is at each posi 
tion marked A on the map. Smooth boul 
ders and small rocks are stacked around the 
base of the turret and near the engines as 
well. Two guards are on duty. 

Guards (2): AC 5 (scale mail 1C shield); Level 
2 Fighter; hp 10, 8; #AT 1; D 1-8 (long- 
sword); XP 40, 36 

GT 11. Turret Level 

This place is filled with racked pallets for 
the men-at-arms, who generally sleep here 
but are otherwise busy elsewhere. 

GT 12. Turret Roof 

This position is reached by ladder from 
below. The battlement is machicolated, 
with pierced merlons. A scorpion is at each 
position marked S on the map, and a long 


Burne's Badgers 

These mercenaries are all Chaotic Neutral 
or true Neutral in alignment. They were 
brigands for a time, but decided that there 
was better pay and less risk serving Burne 
and Rufus, who took them prisoner and 
then spared them. Loyalty is good and 
morale is high. They have had some action 
against other marauders, receive top 
money, and spend an ample amount of off- 
duty time drinking and carousing at the inn. 
The 16 men-at-arms are led by two fighters. 

Both of the leaders like the village, and have 
no desire to leave it or their current employ 
ment. All of Burne's Badgers (including the 
four guards at areas Tl, T4, and T10) are 
capable of winding and loading the scorpions 
and catapults. Some are also adept at operat 
ing the engines, as noted below. 

Captain: AC 1 (splint mail 1C shield +2); 
Level 5 Fighter; hp 31; #AT 1; Dl-4 (light 
crossbow, ranges 6"/12"/18", or dag 
ger) or 2-9 (longsword +1); XP 365 


Each man-at-arms is Level 0, equipped 
with the armor and weapons noted below. 
Each 'sword' noted on the chart is a long 
sword, and each crossbow is light. Each 
man is also given a letter, for your ease in 
locating them on the maps. 


Primary 
AC hp XP Weapon 
Catapult operators 

Other 

Weapon 

a leather 8c sh. 

7 

6 

20 

spear 

sword 

b leather 8c sh. 

7 

4 

18 

sword 

hand axe 

c leather 8c sh. 

7 

3 

17 

sword 

mace 

d leather 8c sh. 7 3 

Scorpion operators 

17 

morning 

star 

sword 

e ring mail 

7 

3 

21 

shortbow 

mace 

f chain mail 

5 

3 

21 

crossbow 

sword 

Other troops 

g leather 

8 

6 

20 

crossbow 

sword 

h leather 

8 

5 

19 

longbow 

sword 

i leather 

8 

5 

19 

shortbow 

sword 

jleather 

8 

4 

18 

crossbow 

sword 

k leather 

8 

4 

14 

spetum 

sword 

lstuddedleather 

7 

4 

18 

crossbow 

sword 

m leather 8c sh. 

7 

3 

14 

spear 

sword 

n scale mail 

6 

6 

16 

fork 

sword 

o ring mail 8c sh. 

6 

5 

15 

spear 

battle ax 

p ring mail 8c sh. 

6 

4 

14 

spear 

sword 

























The Ruins of the Moathouse 


The following information may be 
gleaned, piece by piece, through conversa 
tion with the villagers of Hommlet. Old- 
timers know far more of the tale than 
newcomers, and certain special individuals 
(notably those on the Town Council) could 
relate the whole story as found here, given 
sufficient provocation and trust in those 
inquiring. It is unlikely that such trust will 
be cause for revelation even so, unless seri 
ously interested characters attend a special 
Council meeting for the express purpose of 
aiding the village through their explora 
tions. 

The appended boxed information is to be 
read as the characters head for the ruins. 

This place was once the outpost of the 
Temple of Elemental Evil, its watchtower 
and an advance base for raids, looting, and 
destruction. From this area, servants of the 
Temple were to bring the Village of Hom 
mlet and all the lands around it into subjec 
tion. The conquered folk were then to be 
used as slaves to construct yet another for 
tress further west, spreading the evil power 
of the Temple in ever-growing rings to 
encompass all of the land around its base. 

This outpost was ignored during the 
destruction of the Temple, for the army of 
good which came against the wicked hordes 
was so strong as to be totally immune to any 
pinpricking from the garrison of the 
moathouse. Only after the end of the battle 
which destroyed the main armies of the 
Temple of Elemental Evil was attention 
turned to this place. A detachment of horse 
and foot with a small siege train then came 
to the marshlands, to lay the castle low. The 
common folk from miles around came to 
help, and the moathouse was surrounded, 
cut off, and battered into extinction. The 
place is now shunned by the people of Hom- 
miet, who hate its former evil and the mem 
ory of the terror brought to them by the 
black lord of the fortress-a vile cleric of 
damnation-and his evil men and human 
oid troops. 


A scrub of thorns, thistles, weeds, and 
shrubs grows thickly along the edge of 
the track which leads to the ruins. Even 
the track is mostly overgrown and clut 
tered with fallen branches and trees. 
Here and there it is washed out, in other 
places a mire. 

Some game evidently still follows the 
pathway, however, for after a mile or so 


faint traces can be seen. But even consid 
ering this, going is slow, and it takes over 
an hour to reach the place on horseback, 
or two to trudge along on foot. Consid 
erable hacking and clearing is necessary 
to make the way passable, so double the 
time required for the first trip. After two 
miles, as the track turns more northerly, 
the land begins to sink and become 
boggy. Tall marsh plants grow thickly 
where cattails and tamaracks do not. Off 
to the left can be seen the jagged silhou 
ette of the moathouse. 

A side path, banked high to cross over 
the wetland to either side, just north to 
the entrance of the ruin. The track here is 
only about 15 feet wide or so, with crum 
bling embankments making travel near 
the edge dangerous. The bogs stink. The 
vegetation appears dense and prolific, 
but somehow sickly and unhealthy, 
creepers and vines throwing their stran 
gling loops over the skeletons of dead 
saplings and living bushes alike. The 
rushes and cattails rustle and bend even 
to a slight zephyr, and weird birdcalls, 
croakings, and other unwholesome 
sounds come faintly across the fen. 


The track continues past the ruins for many 
miles-seven leagues, in fact, to Nulb. 

UPPER LEVEL OF THE RUINS 
RANDOM ENCOUNTERS 

Encounter occurs 1 in 12; roll ld6 for type. 
These random encounters do not deplete 
the numbers of others in the dungeon. Ref 
erences to encounter areas are given for aid 
in handling of the type. Check for encount 
ers once per turn in all areas. 

Id6 Encounter 

1. Giant rats (2-8, see area 13) 

2. Scraping noise (shifting materials 
above) 

3. Giant tick overhead (see area 16) 

4. Squeaking and rustling (rats in the 
floor underneath) 

5. Brigands (2-5 reinforcements for 
area 7) 

6. Footsteps (the party's own, a trick 
of echoes) 


Statistics 

Brigand: AC 7 (leather IV shield); Level 0 (HD 
1-1); MV 12"; #AT 1; D by weapon (long- 
sword, spear, hand axe); XP 10 + 1/hp 
Rat, giant: AC 7; HD 1/2 #AT 1; D 1-3 + dis 
ease (5% chance per hit); XP 7 + 1/hp 
Tick, giant: AC 3; HD 3; MV 3"; #AT 1; D 
1-4; SA blood drain for D 1-6 per round; 
XP 105 + 3/hp 

UPPER LEVEL 
ENCOUNTER KEY 

1. POOL 

The following encounter should chal 
lenge a party of 5-8 characters of 1st or 2nd 
level. If fewer characters are present, or if 
2nd level characters are lacking (one or 
none), the DM should decrease the number 
of monsters accordingly, first omitting one 
of the larger creatures, then the smaller, 
leaving one large monster at all times. Do 
not, however, add to the number. If the 
characters are all 2nd or higher level, con 
vert small monsters to large specimens. 

Roll ld6; six giant frogs herein surprise 
intruders on a result of 1-4. These nasty 
things leap from their lurking places in the 
tall weeds near the edge of the pool, to a 
maximum range of 12 ". They attack madly, 
for they are voraciously hungry at all times. 

if characters are mounted, check to see if 
the horses panic and throw their riders or 
plunge into the marsh and become mired. 
The chance of panic is 90% for most 
mounts, but only 10% for a warhorse. If 
panic occurs, the chance of either subse 
quent occurrence is 50% (check for each, 
per horse; both may occur to one victim). 

Each of the two larger frogs has a tongue 
12 feet long; the smaller tongue is a mere 6 
feet, if its prey is more than 5 feet away, a 
frog uses its tongue to attack (gaining a + 4 
"to hit" bonus, but for no damage). Any vic 
tim hit by the tongue may attack it, and if 
successful the frog withdraws it and does 
not use it thereafter. Otherwise, the victim is 
pulled in by the tongue. A victim weighing 
more than the frog is dragged in at half 
speed, gaining a second attempt to hit the 
tongue. Each of the small frogs weighs 
about 100 pounds; each of the larger, 200. 

For added fun, each frog can swallow an 
elf, halfling, or small human if its "to hit" 





roll is 20. The victim has three tries to escape 
if an edged weapon is in hand; a score of 18 
or more is required for success (indicating 
that the frog is slain). After three failures, a 
swallowed victim dies. 

The largest frog has swallowed an amethyst 
(worth 100 gp), but the others are penniless. 

Giant frogs, average size (2): AC 7; HD 2; 
hp 13, 10; MV 37/9"; #AT 1; D 1-6; XP 
70, 64 

Giant frogs, small (4): AC 7; HD 1; hp 7, 6, 
4, 4; MV 3"//9"; #AT 1; D 1-3; XP 29, 
28, 26, 26 

2. ROTTING DRAWBRIDGE 

When the moathouse was taken, part of the 
drawbridge was battered through, and men 
crossed on planks to gain access to the inner 
gates. The chains of the drawbridge were bro 
ken, and it fell; it has remained thus since. It is 
strong enough to bear a man, but any mount 
crossing over may break through and injure a 
leg. The chance is 50% for a horse, 30% for a 
mule, and 20% for a pony. The injury reduces 
the mount to 2/3 of full hit points (rounded up, 
permanent until magically cured), and reduces 
movement rate and encumbrance figures to 
half normal. 

3. BROKEN GATES 


The door is hanging open on one great 
hinge, the other is splintered and holed 
but still in position, wedged and shored 
closed from the inside. 


A careful examination of the ground here 
reveals boot prints in the ground, heading 
for the building steps at area 5. 

It is 50% likely that a pair of brigands 
(from area 7) are here, see the party, and 
retreat to their lair, giving warning to the 
group. If so, the party will be aware of none 
of this, unless using wizard eye or some 
other sort of invisible advance scouting. 

4.TOWER 


The upper portion of the tower has col 
lapsed, and the interior is dark. 


Even if an arrow slit is peered through, 
infravision will reveal nothing. The occu 
pant lurks above. A scattering of husks and 
a few bones lie on the floor, possibly giving 


warning to the wary, but the gleam of coins 
therein may tempt investigation. 

A great wolf spider is crouched on the 
remains of an upper floor some 15 feet over 
head. it leaps (range 3") and bites as soon as 
anyone steps into the tower. It gains surprise 
on a roll of 1-5 (ld6). 

Amidst the rubbish are 71 cp and 38 sp, 
and an ivory box about the size of a large 
book (easily worth 50 gp or more to the 
right buyer). 

Huge spider (1): AC 6; HD 2 + 2; hp 14; MV 
18"; #AT 1; D 1-6 + poison ( + I bonus 
to saving throw); XP 187 

5. LITTERED STEPS 

This staircase leads to the house portion of 
the fortress. A careful examination of these 
steps reveals that some traffic (human, animal, 
and perhaps otherwise) comes this way. The 
doors at the head of the stairs are broken-one 
flat on the floor, the other sundered. 

6. GREAT HALL 


This was once a great audience chamber, 
as shown by the tattered banners and 
tapestries on the walls, destroyed furni 
ture, and heaps of rotting cloth thrown 
into corners. Once richly appointed, it 
has been thoroughly searched, sacked, 
and despoiled. Leaves and dirt cover the 
floor, and cobwebs hang from walls and 
the ceiling above. Looking up, you see 
that pieces of beams and chunks of stone 
poke through, indicating that the upper 
stories of the place are totally destroyed 
and likely to be impassable to anything 
larger than a rat. 


7. BRIGANDS 

Holed up in this Black Chamber, 1 the 
quarters of the former Lord of the castle, are 
eight brigands and their leader, a Level 2 
fighter. The heavy door has been repaired 
by these outlaws, and it is usually barred 
and bolted as well. They are not aware of 
the secret door nor the stairway down. 

The chamber is floored in black flag 
stones, and has ebon-colored wall hangings 
(now burnt and tattered) in addition to the 
jumbled wreckage noted. The brigands 
pitch bedrolls in odd corners, and the 
remains of fires can be noted in the northern 
fireplace. 


If brigand sentries were at area 3 when the 
party approached (a 50% chance), they 
have retreated here, and the others are 
warned of the party 's approach. At least one 
brigand always watches the escape route 
(the ruined wall in the southeast corner, and 
the stepping stones across the moat). 

The brigands' actions vary by the party's 
apparent strength: 

Weak: 

The brigands hide in the clutter of wrecked 
furniture, gaining surprise on 1-5 (on ld6). 
Capable: 

The brigands lock their door, and leave if it 
is battered. They take only their petty 
loot, leaving the rest safely hidden. 
Overwhelming: 

The brigands sneak out as soon as the party 
is detected, taking all of their loot and 
heading for greener pastures. 

Leader: AC 4 (chain Ik shield); Level 2 
Fighter; hp 17; #AT 1; D 1-6 (spear) or 1- 
8 (longsword); XP 54 

Aide: AC 6 (ring mail fk shield); Level 0; hp 
7; #AT I; Dl-8 (longsword) or 2-7 (flail); 
XP 17 


Others (each Level 0): 




Armor 

Weapons 

AC 

hp 

XP 

padded 

fksh. 

studded 

sword, 

3 javelins 

6 

3 

7 

leather 

halberd 

7 

6 

6 

leather &. sh. 

spear, 
hand axe 

7 

5 

5 

leather 

crossbow, 

sword 

8 

5 

9 

leather 

crossbow, 

club 

8 

4 

8 

leather 

crossbow, 

mace 

8 

4 

8 

leather 

voulge 

8 

3 

3 


Each brigand has 3-18 sp. The aide has an 
additional 3-12 ep and 2-8 gp. The leader 
has 5-20 pp, 1-2 citrines (50 gp each), and 
wears a gold chain worth 200 gp. 

The brigands have buried a chest under 
the rubble where the wall collapsed. Three 
turns of digging can uncover the loot. The 
chest holds 2,000 cp, two bolts of fine cloth 
worth 60 gp each, a crystal flagon and four 
goblets (the set worth 80 gp), an inlaid 
wooden box with ivory handles and decora 
tions (45 gp), and four magical arrows + 1. 







8. STAIRWAY UP 

After a few steps the risers are covered with 
dust, crushed stone, broken wood, and 
burned heaps of cloth. At the landing halfway 
up they are completely choked with rubble, 
and it is impossible to clear the loose stone and 
huge wall section to allow passage. The entire 
upper floor is collapsed and ruined. 

9. LITTERED ROOM 

This room was once a conference cham 
ber, but is now empty. Its dirt and wreckage 
show no signs of any recent occupant, 
though a couple of small rats are seen scur 
rying away. There is nothing of any value 
within except a very fine broadsword 
wedged behind a splintered wall case, the 
contents of which are long gone. 

10. EMPTY BEDCHAMBER 

Once the quarters of a castle troop leader or 
some other petty official, this place is now a 
total wreck. The bed is chopped to pieces, and 
the furniture is smashed or missing. 

11. SALON 

This room was once very opulent, obvi 
ously a place of many expensive furnish 
ings. The remaining bits and tatters still 
appear rich (though none are of value). If 
the party investigates the room, scores of 
bats flutter angrily around. In the confu 
sion, any light source will probably (75% 
chance) be dropped and extinguished. Any 
one striking at the bats after the lights go out 
may (50% chance) hit the nearest party 
member instead, inflicting double normal 
damage if a hit is scored against the victim s 
rear Armor Class. 

12. CORNER ROOM 

After one of their number was slain here a 
few weeks ago, the brigands gave this room 
and the entry corridor a wide berth. A huge 
adder, over 12 feet long, dwells here. It 
crawled up the rubble spilled into the moat, 
and found a nice safe lair where it could hole 
up after hunting. In the litter of its nesting 
place is a jeweled dagger worth 850 gp. 

Giant Snake: AC 5; HD 4 + 2; hp 23; MV 
15"; #AT 1; D 1-3 + poison (take 2-8 
points added damage, or 1-3 if the saving 
throw is made); XP 505 


13. STOREROOM AND STAIRWAY 

Some rustling and squeaking will betray 
the presence of a hungry horde of giant rats. 
Any bite may inflict disease; the chance is 
5% (check per hit). These rodents live on 
the shelves along the walls, and some lurk 
around the staircase. They are hungry and 
attack without fear. Though they have no 
treasure, an overlooked jug of oil (lOflasks 1 
worth) is on the upper shelf of the storage 
area, and on the fifth stair down is a gold 
ring worth 40 gp. However, if the party does 
not search, the ring will probably pass 
unnoticed. Roll ld20 per person using the 
stairs; the ring is discovered on a roll of 1. 

Giant Rats (13): AC 7; HD 1/2; hp 4 (x4) 3 
(x2); 2 (x3); 1 (x4); #AT 1; D 1-3 + disease 
(5%); XP 11 (x4), 10 (x2), 9 (x2), 8 (x4) 

14. TROPHY ROOM 

Only a few mangy pelts, stuffed heads, 
and shattered antlers indicate the former 
status of the chamber. All worthwhile items 
are looted. Considerable time may be spent 
searching the litter herein, but nothing of 
value will be found. 

15. DOMICILE 

This place was the domicile of the major- 
domo of the castle, but is now stripped of 
everything save broken and ruined furnish 
ings. One wall cresset remains near the 
outer wall, and its nondescript torch stub is 
a silver baton worth 30 gp. 

16. KITCHEN 

The remains of moldering foodstuffs and 
kitchen work tables are visible. A wooden 
cask near the fireplace on the north wall 
looks inviting, but anyone approaching it is 
attacked by a giant tick! (If the attack hits, 
the victim takes 1-4 points of damage from 
the bite and 1-6 points per round thereafter 
from blood drain, with no "to hit" roll 
needed.) This horror came in through the 
chimney. No treasure is here. 

Giant Tick: AC 3; HD 3; hp 19; MV 3 "; #AT 
1; D 1-4; SA blood drain for D 1-6 per 
round; XP 141 

17. BARRACKS 

A giant lizard is in the south end of the 


room, near an intact chest. The monster 
attacks anyone invading its lair. It has previ 
ously swallowed a shield + 1, easily found if 
appropriate actions are taken after the bat 
tle. The chest holds 33 cp, a scale mail tunic, 
a light crossbow, and a case of 24 quarrels. 

In this partially collapsed chamber, the 
remains of cots and plain wooden chests indi 
cate that this was once a barracks room for cas 
tle guards-undoubtedly the human sort. If the 
overhead rubble is forcibly moved, it may fall 
further (50% chance), inflicting 1-6 points of 
damage to each victim in the place. Check for 
each round of disturbance. 

Giant Lizard: AC 5; HD 3 +1; hp 16; MV 
15"; #AT; D 1-8; SA double damage if 
"to hit" roll is 20; XP 189 

DUNGEON LEVEL 
RANDOM ENCOUNTERS 

Encounter occurs 1 in 6; roll ld8 for type. 

These random encounters do not deplete 
the numbers of others in the dungeon. Ref 
erences to encounter areas are given for aid 
in handling of the type. Check for encount 
ers once per turn in all areas. 

Id8 Encounter Type 

1. Footsteps (echo of party's own) 

2. Giant rats (3-12; see area 13) 

3. Thumping (the lizard of area 17 out 
hunting, or some other passing 
critter) 

4. Zombies (2-8; see area 21) 

5. Bugbears (1-2, on patrol; seearea27) 

6. Moaning (the wind blowing 
though some cracks and crevices) 

7. A distant rattling (could be any 
thing) 

8. Gnolls (2-5, on patrol; see area 29) 
Statistics 

Bugbear: AC 5; HD 3 + 1; MV 9"; #AT 1; D 
2-8 (morning star); SA surprise on 1-3; 
XP135 + 4/hp 

Gnoll; AC 5; HD 2; MV 9"; #AT 1; D 2-8 
(morning star, broadsword, or 
guisarme); XP 28 + 2/hp 
Ogre: AC 5; HD 4 + 1; MV 9"; #AT 1; D 1- 
10 (club) or by weapon; XP 90 + 5/hp 
Rat, giant; AC 7; HD 1/2; #AT 1; D 1-3 + dis 
ease (5% chance per hit); XP 7 + 1/hp 
Zombie: AC 8; HD 2; MV 6"; #AT 1; D 1-8; 
SA always lose initiative; SD piercing 
weapon inflicts only 1 point damage; XP 
20 + 2/hp 






DUNGEON LEVEL 
ENCOUNTER KEY 

18. STAIRWAY ARCH 

Two nauseous blobs of green slime have 
been carefully placed and fed in a position 
over the central arch at the base of the stair 
way. Anyone descending the stairs and step 
ping onto the dungeon floor will probably 
(75% chance) cause one of the two slimes to 
dislodge itself and fall squarely upon the 
victim. Any cautious approach (either look 
ing up or moving along the walls) will avoid 
this, but then anyone passing through the 
northern portion of the 10 feet square will 
run the same (75%) risk of being attacked. 

The room contains no treasure. A few torn 
sacks, broken barrels, and shattered weapons 
racks show that this large area was once a 
storage place and armory for the fortress. 
Great heaps of worthless rubble and broken 
containers and furniture are at the western end 
of the room, all obviously junk (but conceal 
ing the doors to rooms 19 and 20). 

Green Slimes (2): AC 7; HD 2; hp 10, 7; MV 
0; #AT 1 (drip); D turn to slime in 1-4 
rounds; XP630, 628 

19. DOOR 

The lock of this portal is secured, obvi 
ously new, and well-oiled. If not picked, the 
door can be chopped or smashed down by 
axe or hammer, withstanding 50 points of 
damage before splintering open. Inside the 
room are 30 shields, 12 suits of leather 
armor, and several barrels. Most of the lat 
ter contain salted meat, but two in the rear 
are 5-gallon kegs of an average brandy, 
worth 80 gp each. 



20. DOOR 

This portal is also locked, as is area 19. 
Behind it are 50 spears, 10 glaives, six 
guisarmes, three battle axes, 70 black capes 
(each with ayellow eye of fire sewed on the cen 
ter), more containers of provisions, a crate of 
120 arrows, and a crate of 200 crossbow bolts. 

21. CORRIDOR AND CELLS 

Two zombies are hiding behind the north 
ernmost pillar, at the end of the hall. They 
move to attack any intruders approaching the 
entrance to area 22. One round after they are 
seen, another pair of zombies appears from 
the southernmost cubicle (nearest the stairs), 
attacking the party from the rear. Each of the 
remaining cubicles also contains two zombies, 
and one pair enters the engagement each 
round (12 zombies in all). 

Try to corner the party in area 22. The 
zombies attack until slain or turned, of 
course. They have no treasure, but a peridot 
(500 gp gem) was long ago hidden behind a 
loose stone in the northernmost cell (the last 
to disgorge zombies). If this cell is searched, 
the loose piece in the wall will probably be 
found (50% chance per searcher per round). 

Zombies (12): AC 8; HD 2; hp 15, 14, 13, 12, 
10 (x3), 9, 8, 6, 5, 4; MV 6"; #AT 1; D 1-8; 
SA always lose initiative; SD piercing 
weapon iflicts only 1 point damage; XP 50, 
48, 46, 44, 40, (x3), 38, 36, 32, 30, 28 

22. TORTURE CHAMBER 

At first glance this place seems long aban 
doned; dust, dirt, and cobwebs abound. A 
careful perusal shows, however, that sev 
eral of the skeletons in the place are not old 
remnants, and some of the instruments and 
mechanisms have been used very recently 
indeed. Only if exacting care is taken in 
inspecting the floor can some drops of blood 
be noticed, leading south (the trail of a 
sloppy ghoul). Without this clue it is 90% 
likely that the secret door in the pillar will 
go undiscovered. Check only once per char 
acter looking, but roll dice as if normal 
checks were being made. (If the trail is dis 
covered, apply normal chances of locating 
the secret door mechanism-1 in 6 for non- 
elven characters, 2 in 6 for elven). 

Inside the pillar is a shaft some 30 feet 
deep, with iron rungs set into the stonework 
for easy descent. The rungs are obviously 



used with some frequency. 

23. LITTERED STOREROOM 

The mess of filth and broken junk is 
utterly unremarkable. For a person of aver 
age strength, the door opens with a roll of 1- 
4 (on ld6), and makes no noise. If the 
characters are cautious as they open the 
door, they might (50% chance) note the 
grease on the door hinges. 

24. LARGE ROOM 

Lubash, an ogre, has been lured here and 
into service by baubles and the promise of 
fresh human meat. He will immediately 
attack intruders who do not wear the sym 
bol of the new master (the yellow eye of 
fire). Those properly clad must still make 
the secret sign (crossed arms before the face) 
to prevent the ogre's attack. 

Lubash will devour the slain at the first 
opportunity, tossing wounded and prisoners 
into room 25. He will pursue a fleeing party, 
but only as far as the stairs up (area 18). 

The ogre has a heap of old clothing and 
skins for a bed, and a-large wooden chest for 
his treasures-worthless glass beads, brass 
candlesticks and other trash, 823 cp, 46 sp, 
and 3 gp. However, by some trick of fate, a 
small-sized elven cloak is intermixed with 
the old carpeting and rags of his bedding. 

Ogre: AC 5; HD 5 + 1; hp 21; MV 9"; #AT 
1; D 7-13 (2d4 + 5, bardiche); XP 195 

25. OAKDOOR 

This portal is heavily barred, for this is 
the grisly pantry of Lubash the ogre. It cur 
rently houses a pair of humans who have 
undergone only mild torture, plus a badly 
beaten gnome upon whom Lubash intended 
to soon dine-a mere snack, and tough, but 
a nice change nonetheless. 

If rescued, the humans will admit to being 
merchants. Both will promise large rewards 
for their release, vowing to send the monies 
to Hommlet as soon as they return to their 
homes in Dyvers. Four weeks after their 
release, a passing caravan will deliver 100 sp 
per merchant to the rescuers. 

If the merchants are rescued, their XP 
value (14 each) is awarded to the party. If 
slain, deduct 50 XP per merchant from the 
party's total. Apply the same principle to 
the gnome (XP 20). 


24 






The gnome was caught spying by some 
gnolls, and he too will ask to be freed, giv 
ing a plain iron ring to whomever first so 
agrees. This ring is recognized 70% of the 
time by gnomes within 100 miles of the area 
as a sign that the bearer is an ally, thus mak 
ing it 25% more probable that they will be 
friendly and helpful. 

26. UNDETECTED TRAP 

The party will not notice that a huge iron 
grate could fall from above at this point in 
the corridor. The underside is even with the 
tunnel ceiling 15 feet above, and is painted a 
grayish brown to blend with the stone. The 
trap's two triggers are false doors, described 
as area 28 but located separately. 

26a. The secret door (detectable at normal 
chances) leads to a winch, which is used to 
haul the grate back up. The lowered grate 
cannot otherwise be raised unless three or 
more individuals with ogre strength (18/00) 
all work together to do so. 

27. RECRUITS 

This is the lair of six bugbears, who have 
recently been recruited by the New Master 
(room 35). If any lights are shown in the 
chamber to the north, these creatures sneak 
forth quietly to investigate, gaining surprise 
on 1-3 (ld6). 

The bugbears know only that the Master 
is quartered somewhere to the north. Each 
has 12 gp. The leader (17 hp) wears a brace 
let, which is actually a silver necklace 
(worth 450 gp) set with five gems of chryso- 
prase (four small, worth 50 gp each, and one 
of larger size worth 100 gp). 

Bugbears (6): AC 5; HD 3 + 1; hp 17; 14, 12, 
11, 11, 9; #AT 1; D 2-8 (morning star); 
SA surprise on 1-3; XP 203, 191, 183, 179 
(x2), 171 

28. DOOR 

This portal is a fake. When pulled open, a 
bare stone wall is revealed behind. At the 
same time, a distant clangor sounds (the 
grate, falling in area 26). 

29. ODD SIDE ROOM 

Herein is the lair of nine gnolls recruited 
by the New Master (area 35). They attack 



intruders, fighting fiercely and to the death 
if necessary. However, they are 75% likely 
to stop and listen if an offer to parley is 
made, for they are not satisfied with their 
lot. They have lost six members while raid 
ing to the east and south of the ruins, are 
dissatisfied with their loot, and are irate 
about the greater status accorded the newly 
recruited bugbears (area 27). 

The gnolls speak bugbear, ogre, and their 
own tongue, but no Common. If offered six 
or more gp each (triple awards for the 
leader), they desert their current station. If 
double this fee is offered and paid, they lead 
the characters to the north passage toward 
the Master's room, and even tell of human 
guards. The gnolls then proceed west to the 
exit and never return. 

Each gnoll has 3-18 sp and a like number 
of coppers as well. The leader has 11 gp and 
a pretty lump of blue quartz worth 10 gp. 

Gnolls (9): AC 5; HD 2; hp 14, 12, 10 (x3), 9 
(x3), 7; #AT 1; D 2-8 (battle axe); SA 2 
have longbows, each with 20 arrows; XP 
56, 52, 48 (x3), 46 (x3), 42 

30. POOL 

When the dungeons were dug, this natu 
ral pool of water was found. As it is consid 
erably below floor level, the area was dug 
lower and the entrance to the pool enlarged. 
Some connection to an underground stream 
must exist, for some time ago, a giant cray 
fish took the pool as its own. It now disputes 
with any creatures entering, hoping to make 
a meal in the bargain. (The men-at-arms 
from area 33 hold it at bay by prodding with 
pole arms; all others take their chances.) 

The monster has been fairly successful, and 
there are bones and litter in and around the 
pool. If badly wounded, the crayfish retreats 
into a very deep central section of the pool, 
and does not return for 24 or more hours. 

Near the back (northeast) edge of the pool 
are 17 cp, 30 sp, 19 gp, and a normal long- 
sword. In the water on a ledge is a platinum 
pin set with a smallish ruby (worth 2,000 
gp) and a bone tube. The pin is under a 
skull, and the tube rests under some bones. 
Unless searchers use their hands, either or 
both treasures may (50% chance for each) 
slip off the ledge and be lost below. The tube 
is watertight and contains a scroll of three 
magic-user spells (push, stinking cloud, fly), 
but does not float. 



Giant Crayfish: AC 4; HD 4 + 4; hp 27; MV 
6"//12"; #AT 2; D 2-12/2-12; XP 225 

31. BURIAL CRYPTS 

The builders of the dungeon planned for a 
long tenancy (though their expectations 
were not met). Most of the niches are empty, 
but a few contain splintered coffins, wrap 
pings, and gnawed and split bones (a sure 
sign that all is not well). 

Squatting in the north end of the room are 
four ghouls, who attack as soon as they see 
intruders. These creatures get corpses to eat 
from the Master-and sometimes even prey 
on those notyet dead (from area 22), so they 
can have some 'sport' before dining. They 
have no treasure (not here, at least). 

Ghouls (4): AC 6; HD 2; hp 12, 10, 8, 7; 
#AT 3; D1-4/1-4/1-8; SA paralysis (save 
negates, elves immune; DR 3-12 turns); 
XP 89, 85, 81, 79 

31a. The back of a crypt is broken out, leading 
to an earth tunnel, which is foul and damp and 
only about 5 feet high. The tunnel leads to a 
noisome den (A) where a heap of bones and 
skulls indicates the ghouls' nest. Their treasure 
is scattered in the mess-800 sp, seven vials of 
holy water, a potion of undead control, and a 
scroll of protection from undead. A trail of 
gold pieces (1-4 per 10 feet of tunnel) begins at 
area B, leading generally eastward. 

31b. A warren of small burrows (3 feet in 
diameter and smaller) starts here. Mapping is 
not possible. After about 30 feet of travel, the 
trail of gold ends. If the characters follow the 
tunnels off the mapped portion, allow them to 
proceed another hundred feet, and then tell 
them they are hopelessly lost. 

32. PASSAGE 

The corridor here begins to slant gradu 
ally upwards, and a slight breeze can be felt 
after 100 feet beyond the edge of the map. 
After another 300 feet, the tunnel ends in a 
narrow opening amidst rocks, thick briars 
and brambles-open air. 

33. ROOM AND CORRIDOR 

At each position marked X stands a 
guard, garbed all in black with gold eyes of 
fire embroidered upon tunic and cloak. 
These humans are the alert and fearless 


25 




guards of the New Master 1 (room 35). Their 
Sergeant is usually in area 33, but he patrols 
the whole area regularly. 

When attacked, a guard sends up a low 
hooting sound while engaging. This brings 
the others, plus reinforcements from area 34 
(six more guards with spears, and their Ser 
geant). The reinforcements take 4-5 rounds 
to arrive there to ready themselves, one to 
move to area 33, and another to reach the 
north passage (if needed there). 

If the guards are losing the fray, they start 
howling. This brings all guards in the area, 
and the Master as well. (See above for time 
required.) Each guardsman has 2-8 sp, 2-5 
gp, and 1-4 pp. The Sergeant has double 
those amounts of coin, and wears a gold 
neckchain of office (worth 50 gp). 

Guardsmen (6): AC 5 (scale mail Ik shield); 
Level 1 Fighters; hp 7, 6, 5, 5, 4, 4; MV 
9"; #AT 1; D by weapon: each has long- 
sword (D 1-8), dagger (1-4), light cross 
bow and 30 quarrels (1-4); XP 25, 24, 23 
(x2), 22 (x2) 

Sergeant: AC 4 (chain Ik shield); Level 2 
Fighter; hp 15; #AT 1; D by weapon; 
morning star (D 2-8), hammer (2-5), dag 
ger (1-4); XP 66 

34. BARRACKS CHAMBER 

Quartered here are 12 guards and two ser 
geants, all armed and armored as those in 
area 33, except that six guards bear spears 
instead of crossbows. These six and their 
sergeant are the reinforcements arriving in 
area 33 if fighting occurs. Also here is the 
New Master's lieutenant, an evil hero. He 
stays near his liege lord always, and will 
accompany him wherever he goes. 

in the 20 x 40' room to the northeast are 
supplies for the guards-salted meat, weak 
wine in a barrel, water, hard biscuits, dried 
fruit, and so forth. There are also mounds of 
fresh rushes and grass, for bedding and for 
two light warhorses stabled at the north end of 
the place. Saddles, tack, and a lance are 
nearby. 

The lieutenant has 29 gems in his purse, 
each worth 100 gp (three amethysts, eight 
pieces of fine coral, nine red garnets, six 
pearls, and three tourmalines), and wears a 
platinum chain of office (1000 gp) in which a 
topaz (500 gp) is prominently set. 

Lieutenant; AC 1 (plate Ik shield); Level 4 



Fighter; hp 31; MV 6"; #AT 1 or 2; D 2-9 
(longsword) or 1 -6/1 -6 (longbow), also 
carries hand axe (D 2-7), dagger (2-5); 
XP 259; S 15 I 12 W 10 D 15 Co 17 Ch 7 

35. CHAMBER OF THE NEW MASTER 

The Masters chamber is lavishly furnished, 
with thick rugs, wall hangings, and soft 
chairs, couch, and cushions. Wines, liquors, 
and dishes of sweetmeats abound. A brazier 
continually burns, warming the place and 
sending a fragrant incense into the air. Silver 
serving pieces and goblets (worth 4,000 gp for 
all) and an alabaster box filled with unguents 
(total value 800 gp) are in plain sight. Hidden 
in a cabinet is an exquisite piece of jewelry, 
made with matched fire opals (ten gems worth 
1,000 gp each) on a gold chain and settings 
with diamond chips (5,000gp). The New Mas 
ter, Lareth, is described more fully below. He 
carries but 9 pp and one black opal (1,000 gp). 
On his left arm is bound a phylactery of 
action, a clerical magical item which makes 
the wearer impervious to paralyzation of any 
sort, including all hold spells and spell-like 
powers. 

Lareth will aid his guards' melee with his 
spells, keeping a defensive posture while 
commanding his troops' attacks. He will 
melee if necessary, and probably after using 
his spells. He wields a mace in his left hand 
(D 1-6, -2 "to hit" as secondary weapon) and 
a staff of striking in his right (staff + 3, D 4- 
9, 20 charges; uses 1 per hit, or 2 for double 
damage, 3 for triple). 

If seriously threatened, Lareth will offer 
all his non-magical treasures-jewelry, 
coins, and all else-as ransom for his life, if 
Lareth is slain, there will be cautious and 
discreet inquiries in Hommlet, as the ser 
vants of evil therein make every attempt to 
find out what happened. If any of Lareth's 
possessions turn up, the slayers are 
revealed. An assassin of 10th level who can 
speak the alignment language of the individ 
uals, as well as those of major allies, will 
come to the village in 5-20 days to eliminate 
the offender(s). DM, handle this as you see 
fit. Jaroo and Terjon of Hommlet will cer 
tainly aid those attacked. If the assassin is 
killed, nothing further will be attempted. 

Lareth: AC -1 (plate mail +1); Level 5 Cleric; 
hp 44; #AT 1; D 1-6 (mace) or 4-9 (or 
more, from staff of striking-, 20 charges 
remain); SA spells (see below); SD immune 
to paralysis (phylactery of action); XP 770 



S 18 W 18 D 17 C 16 Ch 18 
First level: command, cure light wounds 
(x2), protection from good, sanctuary 
Second level: hold person (x2), know align 
ment, resist fire, silence 15' radius 
Third level: cause blindness, continual 
darkness 

Lareth the Beautiful is the dark hope of 
chaotic evil-young, handsome, well 
endowed in abilities and aptitudes, thor 
oughly wicked, depraved, and capricious. 
Whomever harms Lareth had best not brag 
of it in the presence of one who will inform 
the Demoness Lolth! 

Lareth has been sent to this area to rebuild 
a force of men and humanoid fighters to 
gather loot and restore the Temple of Ele 
mental Evil to its former glory. He is but one 
of many so charged, of course, but is looked 
upon with special favor and expectation. He 
and his minions have been careful to raid far 
from this area, never nearer than three or 
four leagues, travelling on foot or riding in 
wagons of the traders from Hommlet. None 
of the victims are ever left alive to tell the 
tale, and mysterious disappearances are all 
that can be remarked upon. No trace of 
men, mounts, goods, wagons or draft ani 
mals is ever found. 

Evil to the core, Lareth is cunning, if a situa 
tion appears in doubt, he uses bribery and 
honeyed words to sway the balance to his 
favor. He is not adverse to gaining new 
recruits of all sorts, and will gladly accept 
adventurers into the ranks (though he will test 
and try them continually). Those who arouse 
suspicion will be quietly murdered in their 
sleep. Those with too much promise will be 
likewise dealt with, for Lareth wants no poten 
tial usurpers or threats to his domination. 

ORIGINAL CREDITS 

Layout and Editing: Timothy Jones 
Editorial Assistance: Mike Carr Ik 
Al Hammack 

Art Ik Maps; Dave Trampier Ik 
Dave Sutherland 


26 




Interlude: Hommletto Nulb 


PLAYERS' BACKGROUND 


The pleasant and seemingly peaceful vil 
lage of Hommlet turned out to be filled 
with intrigue, with agents of Chaotic Evil 
hiding within the hamlet. The supposedly 
deserted and ruined moathouse nearby 
held a new champion of the nearby Temple 
of Elemental Evil. All of this brought dan 
ger and difficulty to the members of your 
group, but it also offered adventure, expe 
rience, and wealth. 

You have either slain or driven off the 
evil men and creatures, and the able 
guardians of Hommlet-Jaroo, Terjon, 
Elmo, and the rest of the sturdy 
militiamen-can surely see to it that their 
area remains clean of the taint of Evil 
hereafter. Having accomplished most of 
your goals, you must now look else 
where for yet greater challenges (and 
commensurate rewards). If agents of the 
Temple were still active in Hommlet, 
then there must certainly be work for 
you at that fountainhead of wickedness. 

Just a half-day's journey afoot (only 
about two hours' ride), east along the 
High Road, lies the disreputable commu 
nity of Nulb, and the Temple hidden in 
the hills nearby. This vile place spawned 
much suffering, ruin and death before 
the hosts of Good brought it low and 
bound its power, it is evident that the 
place was wounded but not slain, for 
dark things crept into Hommlet under 
direction of someone or some thing still 
lurking in the shunned edifice of Evil. 

The upper works of the Temple were 
thrown down and destroyed in the final 
siege of the war against its hordes. 
Because of its great power and evil, how 
ever, the conquerors did not actually 
raze the Temple proper, instead sealing 
its great doors and placing mighty wards 
of all sorts upon the place and the black 
labyrinth beneath. Even as great a force 
as overthrew the Temple could not 
cleanly deal with what lurked below. 

Since that great battle, the Temple area 
has been shunned, its ruins deserted. The 
nearby village of Nulb has returned to a 
semblance of normal activity- 
questionable at best, for the place has 
always been rumored to house thieves, 
brigands, smugglers and pirates. But as 
Nulb stinks of garbage and filth, the 
Temple area reeks of the foul corruption 
and pervading Evil from whence it was 


spawned. No wonder that both places 
have again been left to their own devices. 

When the Temple of Elemental Evil 
flourished, earthquakes, storms of all 
sorts, great fires, and flash floods struck 
areas nearby with seeming capriciousness. 
All that ceased when the Temple was 
assaulted and sealed. You have been 
advised of all this, and urged to go else 
where to seek your fame and fortunes. The 
unease which prevails upon those merely 
passing near the ruins shows that some 
wickedness still haunts the place. There are 
many bad folk in Nulb, and still greater 
perils amidst the fallen Temple. 

Yet the lure of such adventure beckons 
to you, drawing your party as surely as a 
lodestone draws iron. Warnings against 
loss of life-or even worse fates-cannot 
counter the irresistable pull of treasures 
secreted deep underground, of monsters 
still unbeaten, of mysteries to be unrav 
eled. There are whispers of occult places 
beneath the interdicted Temple, where 
mighty Evil is yet wrought and noble 
folk are imprisoned. With care and cun 
ning, luck and great deeds, caution 
mixed with boldness and daring, you 
and your associates can win through to 
achieve exploits of the stuff of legend! 
The Journey of a hundred leagues begins 
with the first pace, and the time for your 
sojourn has come. 

How you and your fellow adventurers 
plan to overcome the perils of the Temple 
is a matter that you must decide for 
yourselves. Is it best to reconnoiter from 
Hommlet? Base your activities from the 
village of Nulb? Try to make a secure 
wilderness camp somewhere near the 
ruin? Or perhaps lodge somewhere 
within the foreboding Temple itself? The 
decision is now. it is certain that both 
vast treasure and horrible death await, 
so you must gain the one while cheating 
the other. Fortune and the gods must 
smile upon such an undertaking. 


PLAYERS' HISTORICAL NOTES 

The following is a summary of informa 
tion assumed to have been obtained from 
various sources in the village of Hommlet. 
Most or all of it should be revealed to play 
ers at this time. The DM should review it 
first, however, deleting such passages that 


are incorrect in the campaign, and others 
that may (in the DM's opinion) be too 
revealing as yet. 


For many years, a cult of Chaotic Evil 
flourished somewhere on the shores of 
the Nyr Dyv. Although the location of 
their Temple is lost, these facts regarding 
it and its followers are known. 

The cult was based on the premise that 
the elemental forces of the universe are 
Chaotic and opposed to mankind, and 
are thus (from a humanocentric view 
point) Evil. The Temple of the cult 
sought to destroy all works of Good and 
to disrupt order, its members were 
thieves, assassins, brigands, and the like. 
Fire was regarded as the first elemental 
evil, and its penchant for Chaos fitted 
the premise of the cult. Water was like 
wise worshipped as an even more power 
ful force of Chaotic Evil, in the form of 
floods, storms, and raging seas beating 
upon the land and ocean vessels. The 
epitome of Chaotic Evil, however, was 
regarded as a combination of air and 
earth, represented by blackness and cor 
responding with the demonic Abyss. 
This combination was regarded as a 
complete negation of matter. 

The cult grew powerful and rich, 
attracting followers of the worst sort and 
offering them safety within the walls of 
the Temple stronghold. From this for 
tress would the followers ride to rob, pil 
lage, and lay waste the lands about, 
tithing the cult from the spoils of the car 
nage. Captives from those raids were 
brought back to the Temple to serve as 
human sacrifices (children to the fire, 
men to the water, and women to the 
blackest Evil) or to slave their lives away 
in bondage. Besides the extensive upper 
works of the Temple, a deep labyrinth 
beneath the place was constructed, but 
virtually nothing is known about these 
dungeons except that they were inhab 
ited by a plethora of creatures serving 
Chaos and Evil. It is rumored that a 
demon took up abode in the deepest 
level, to better receive the sacrifices to it. 

Eventually the neighbors of the Tem 
ple grew tired of these depradations. All 
Good, both Lawful and Chaotic, banded 
together to form a mighty host. Their 
army marched to the Temple, fighting 
two battles along the way. The first was 
conclusive, thought the forces of Good 


27 







who held the field afterward, so they gained 
the reputation of victory, and their ranks 
swelled with local men. The second battle 
saw a great slaughter of kobolds, goblins, 
ores, hobgoblins, evil men, and the like. 
The Temple was thereafter besieged, fell, 
and its inhabitants put to the sword, it is 
reported by some sources that the Temple 
and its precincts resisted complete destruc 
tion, but the majority state that the whole 
was razed so that the cult could never 
emerge again nor could any find where it 
once flourished. 


NOTES FOR THE DUNGEON MASTER 

The dungeons of the Temple of Elemental 
Evil are extensive. It is quite likely that 
many long adventures must be conducted 
before your players have exhausted its pos 
sibilities. You will, therefore, become not 
only intimately familiar with the Temple but 
will also come to know the Village of Nulb 
as if it were your own. in fact, the place is 
only sketched so that you can, in effect, 
make it so. 

This adventure began in the Village of 
Hommlet, only about thirty miles west and 
south of the edge of the Nulb area map. You 
can easily construct your own campaign 
map by using graph paper of roughly the 
same parameters as that of the Nulb map, 
assuming 100 yards to the square. Two 
sheets of paper to the west and two to the 
south cover all of the important territory, 
with Hommlet being located on the High 
Road, two maps west, one south near the 
map bottom, but in the southwest quad 
rant. (The Velverdyva River, by the way, 
generally remains along the upper portion 
of the northern map additions, bulging a bit 
on the first map addition to the west, then 
swinging northwards to flow along the very 
edge of the second map addition.) If you 
make such a map, players might wish to 
base their characters in Hommlet and ride to 
the Temple for adventures. This exposes 
them to more random danger, but it does 
give them a more friendly home base than 
otherwise, in all likelihood. If they inquire 
or search for themselves, they find that the 
only ford of the imeryds Run is at Nulb, the 
next nearest being six leagues upstream, if 
characters base themselves in Nulb, they 
can stay at the hostel, or may attempt to 
buy a deserted structure somewhere else in 
the place. (Your option as to location, but 



cost should be about 500-800 gp for land 
and building, with an initial asking price of 
at least double that amount followed by 
slow, hard bargaining downwards). All 
repairs and safety measures must be accom 
plished by the characters, of course. 

A party based in Nulb will certainly 
attract attention if they are obviously of 
Good alignment or well-heeled. A few suc 
cessful raids on the Temple draw prowling 
night monsters to the party-with some 
offensive aid from the inhabitants of Nulb. 
A great load of booty brought to Nulb by a 
weakened party is an open invitation to 
every pirate, brigand, and town militiaman 
to band together and overwhelm the stran 
gers to get the treasure! In any event, if there 
is continuing action in the village, you 
should prepare a map of the place, and pos 
sibly some of its main buildings, following 
the examples found in Hommlet. Only four 
places in Nulb are dealt with herein, and 
you should enjoy developing the remainder. 

As with the village, the Temple is reasona 
bly well-organized. While there is no partic 
ular rivalry in the village, the citizens are 
Chaotic and Neutral Evil by and large, so 
concerted action is limited in scope (i. e. 
numbers and time). Nulbish folk make fast 
raids, but are not prone to become involved 
in protracted plans and long sieges; they 
have other preferences. The Temple suffers 
from the same attitude, and it has its rival 
ries as well. After the short section hereafter 
pertaining to the village, the Temple is dealt 
with at great length. Following these sec 
tions, appendices on new monsters (includ 
ing the redoubtable St. Cuthbert) and 
magical items are given. Outdoor adventur 
ing is possible around Nulb and the upper 
ruins of the Temple, but the four dungeon 
levels and four Elemental nodes are certain 
to provide the greatest excitement and rich 
est rewards. 

As with any adventure, be certain to read 
and familiarize yourself with all the material 
thoroughly before you start the campaign. 
Adjust details to suit your own concept of a 
fantasy milieu; personalize things for your 
group; add things to make the work a more 
complete setting for the action to come- 
and have at it! It is a certainty that the 
adventures cause changes; just accept them 
as they come, and emend accordingly. 

Adjust the Players' background notes to 
reflect their actions in Hommlet. Remember 
that the following adventures are designed 
for characters who, after starting at first 



level in the Hommlet setting, have now fin 
ished that prelude and can continue with 
these challenges. 

WORLD OF GREYHAWK(tm) Setting 

Hommlet, Nulb, the Temple-all are vital 
parts of Greyhawk. This epic adventure 
formed the basis for a mini-campaign within 
the larger Greyhawk Campaign. It wasn't 
exactly a side show, as it turned out, but the 
adventuring began that way. Many veterans 
of the Greyhawk Campaign, as well as 
many newcomers, began adventuring in 
and around Hommlet about ten years ago. 
From these episodes rose Burne and Rufus, 
Jaroo, Terjon, Otis, Y'dey, and the rest. 
After clearing out all of the Temple's agents 
in the Hommlet area, various characters 
banded together to assault the Temple itself. 
Levels rose sufficiently that characters from 
the original Greyhawk Campaign became 
involved, and Lord Robilar eventually 
entered the Temple with a small party. 

Robilar arrived on his carpet of flying, 
and then set off into the Temple depths, 
leaving his trusty ore hero Quij to guard the 
transport device and a pair of griffons. 
While other adventurers had proceeded cir 
cumspectly, Robilar bulled his way 
through. Two days later, much of the Tem 
ple was sacked, bits and pieces of monsters 
were spread about, and a certain personage 
was loosed. But in the process, the minions 
of Good had been alerted, and they too 
arrived in the area, in force. Robilar left 
with pursuit hot on his tail, Quij wearing a 
new poncho he'd made from "master's fly 
ing rug' 1 (two days being a long time to wait 
in the cold)! Robilar's ravages were followed 
by the army of enraged Good folk, led by 
Tenser and associates - including Otis, 
Burne, Rufus, et al. Zuggtmoy had been 
freed, but not much remained for her after 
all this fun, so, like Robilar, she also 
departed in some haste. The final result was 
a draw, with a strategic edge for Chaotic 
Evil. All of this happened on another world 
from yours; now you have a similar setting. 
Who knows how your campaign will 
develop? 

SECRET HISTORY OF THE TEMPLE 

When the demoness Zuggtmoy initially 
conceived the plan to establish her own rule 
on a portion of the Flanaess, she decided to 
use as many "tools" as possible, just as did 


28 






her competitor (Lolth). Consulting some of 
her clerical servants, Zuggtmoy decided 
that Elemental Evil would have more appeal 
than a cult dedicated to her beloved fungi. 
Recruiting was not difficult, and soon the 
rudiments of the Temple of Elemental Evil 
were flourishing. 

The beauty of the quadrate system was 
obvious to Zuggtmoy; each type of Elemen 
tal Evil would appeal to a broader base of 
servants and followers, and certain ones 
would actually serve her directly. The four 
separate elemental temples would also com 
pete, spreading evil more effectively and 
also serving to check one another if any 
grew too powerful-Zuggtmoy, of course, 
desiring to retain all real power in her own 
grasp. The appeal of elemental destruction 
and demonaic aid attracted many malign 
and twisted creatures to the Temple, and it 
grew ever more rapidly. 

At this crucial juncture, luz himself 
requested an audience with Zuggtmoy. The 
Old One, long ruling a realm of his own, 
perceived the Temple of Elemental Evil and 
Zuggtmoy as tools to be used for his own 
ends. Help the demoness and her Temple to 
grow, aid their ravaging of the lands 
around, and they would surely draw down 
the hosts of Good from Veluna, Furyondy, 
and everywhere else nearby. This drew foes 
away from his own border immediately, 
and at the very worst weakened them to 
some degree, if Good triumphed, the luz 
would not be harmed, for the Old One 
could retire to Dorakaa, none the worse for 
having spent time and effort helping Zuggt 


moy. If the battle were a draw, then luz 
could move his own armies down to 
Furyondy to put the hosts of Good in a vise 
of irresistable Evil. If the Temple triumphed, 
then he could call upon Zuggtmoy to repay 
his aid and make sure that luz, not the 
Horned Society, benefited most from the 
territorial acquisitions in Furyondy. Also, a 
strong Chaotic Evil ally against the growing 
power of the Horned Society could be most 
useful. 

Zuggtmoy, in turn, saw the advantage of 
having luz 1 magic to aid her in building her 
fortress and expanding her domain in the 
Flanaess. Having just learned of the sharp 
check dealt to Lolth in her plans to wreak 
Evil, the Lady of Fungi agreed to accept luz 
as an (almost) equal in the Temple. She saw 
him as an excellent weapon, especially use 
ful against the Horned Society once she had 
absorbed most of Veluna and Furyondy. She 
would then encourage luz to crush the 
might of the Society, and she would be left 
as the great Evil power in the Flanaess, 
ready to absorb the Wild Coast and Pomarj, 
while the rumps of luz and the Horned ones 
served as buffers in the north and east. Her 
hordes, in turn, could concentrate on the 
hateful elves and dwarves to the west.... 

And so the alliance formed, and actually 
worked, but saved not the Temple. Zuggt 
moy was bound in its dungeons, but luz 
remained free (just as he had planned). 
After the mighty magicks had been wrought 
to bind Zuggtmoy-powers which most 
certainly involved great wizards, high 
priests, and deities-luz determined to 


occasionally return to the Temple in hopes 
of gaining advantage for his past efforts. If 
he could somehow free Zuggtmoy, she 
would certainly be much in his debt. At the 
same time, she would be seething with a lust 
for revenge against those who imprisoned 
her. It was luz, in fact, who helped the renr- 
nants of the Temples followers to remain 
viable, but he lacked the power to forge 
them into a useful tool. 

The weakened elemental temples fought 
more amongst themselves than with the 
forces of Good pressing their advantage 
above, luz, meanwhile, remained more con 
cerned with establishing a following of his 
own than with the furthering of Zuggtmoy's 
organization of elemental evil. Some of the 
latter remained faithful to the demoness, 
despite their not knowing where she was or 
how to free her. Some actually turned to 
Lolth in desperation, for many draw visited 
the Temple after its fall. Lareth was one who 
sought to serve both the Temple and Lolth. 
And although Lolth hated Zuggtmoy's Ele 
mental Evil, she so lusted for power that she 
accepted such service. Had she not been 
routed, her dark followers so crippled, 
much might have come of this. 

But as it transpired, Lolth could-and can 
yet-give only encouragement, without 
physical or magical aid, to those who call on 
her. The Temple is thus factioned into no 
less than seven competing groups: four 
serve Elemental Evil principles, one luz, one 
Lolth, and one still loyal to Zuggtmoy. Woe 
to the disloyal should the Lady of Fungi ever 
regain her power! 


29 




Part 2: 

Nulb and the Ruins 


The Village 
of Nulb 

OUTDOOR NOTES 

A casual look at the area map reveals 
that, in general, only terrain features are 
shown. Wilderness encounters of special 
sorts are not given, for two reasons. First, 
the length of the material included herein 
precludes extensive detailing of the outdoor 
areas. Second, as it is meant for long-term 
campaigning, it is absolutely necessary for 
the DM to personalize his or her map to suit 
the tempo and direction of events in the 
group milieu. There are two built-up areas 
shown on the map, and these are dealt with 
in varying degrees of detail. 

RANDOM ENCOUNTERS 

(OUTDOORS) 

Check for random encounters when the 
party first approaches Nulb, and whenever 
they leave. Check about halfway down the 
road. If at night, check twice. When a group 
is exploring off the road, check six times per 
day: morning, noon, afternoon, nightfall, 
midnight, and pre-dawn. 

Check only once if the party is traveling 
by water vessel. If they actually submerge 
for some reason, check each hour. Likewise, 
if the river is under observation, check each 
hour, but not unless there is exposure to 
attack; crayfish and gar are not observed in 
most cases, so simply omit any mention of 
the encounter. 

You may modify these tables as desired. 

Forest or Scrub Terrain (including road) 

Id 12 Result 

1 Id 10 + 10 brigands; leader level 4- 
5 

2 1 d4 + 1 wild boars 

3 2d4 bugbears 

4 1 d 10 + 2 gnolls 

5 1-2 lycanthropes (werewolves) 

6 Merchant caravan (1 in 6 chance 
for being disguised Evil pilgrims) 

7 1 d 12 normal wolves 
8-12 No Encounter 


Swamp or Pond Area (including road) 
1 d 12 Result 


1 ld4 frogs, giant killer 

2 2d4 ghouls 

3 1 d6 leeches, giant (in water) 

4 2d8 lizard men 

5 Merchant caravan (1 in 6 chance 
for being disguised as Evil pil 
grims) 

6-12 No Encounter 
River (including Imeryds Run) 

I d 12 Result 


1 ld4 crayfish, giant 

2 1 gar, giant (small size only in a 
Run) 

3-6 1 Merchant Ship or 2-4 barges 

7 1 Pirate ship 

8 Id4 Warships or ld4 + 8 Nyr Dyv 
bargefolk with 2-4 barges 

9-12 No Encounter 

Statistics 

Bargefolk: AC 10; MV 12 "; Level 0 (HD1-1; 
leaders HD 1 + 2); #AT 1 or 2; D by 
weapon; AL Any; SZ M; XP 10 + 1/hp 
(leaders extra) 

Boar, wild: AC 7; MV 15"; HD 3 + 3; #AT 1; 
D 3-12; SA dies at -7 hp; SZ M (3 1 ); XP 
85 + 4/hp 

Brigand: AC 8 (leather armor); MV 12"; 
Level 0 (HD 1-1); #AT 1 or 2; D by 
weapon; SA missile fire (shortbow, long 
bow, light crossbow); AL NE-CE; XP 10 
+ 1/hp or 14 + 1/hp 
Bugbear: AC 5; MV 9"; HD 3 + 1; #AT 1; D 
2-8 or by weapon; SA surprise on 1-3; 
AL CE; SZ L (7 1 + ); XP 135 + 4/hp 
Crayfish, giant: AC 4; MV 6"//12"; HD 
4 + 4; #AT 2; D 2-12/2-12; SA surprise 
on 1-3 if hiding; AL N; SZ L (8 1 + ); XP 
90 + 5/hp 

Frog, giant killer: AC 7; MV 3"//9"; HD 1 
to 3; #AT 1; D 1-3 or 1-6 or 2-8 (by HD); 
SA surprise on 1-4; leap, tongue, AL N; 
SZ S-M; XP 22 + 1/hp; 44 + 2/hp; or 
80 + 3/hp (by HD) 

Gar, giant: AC 3; MV 0//30 "; HD 8; #AT 1; 
D 5-20; SA swallow on 20; AL N; SZ L 
(21-30 ); XP 550 + 10/hp 
Ghoul: AC 6; MV 9'; HD 2; #AT 3; D 1-3/ 
1-3/ 1-6; SA paralysis (elves immune); 
AL CE; SZ M; XP 65 + 2/hp 


Gnoll: AC 5; MV 9'; HD 2; #AT 1; D 2-8 or 
by weapon; AL CE; SZ L (7 1 + ); XP 28 
+ 2/hp 

Leech, giant: AC 9; HD 1 to 4; #AT 1; D 0; 
SA blood drain (dmg per round = HD); 
anesthesia (victim notices only 1%); and 
50% disease; AL N; SZ S-M; XP 22 + II 
hp; 44 + 2/hp; 80 + 3/hp; or 135 + 4/ 
hp (by HD) 

Lizard man: AC 5; MV 67/12"; HD 2 + 1; 
#AT 3; D 1-2/1-2/1-8; AL N: SZ M (7 1 ); 
XP 35 + 3/hp 

Lycanthrope, werewolf: AC 5; MV 15 "; HD 
4 + 3; #ATI; D 2-8; SA surprise on 1-3; 
AL CE; SZ M; XP 205 + 5/hp 
Merchant: AC 10; MV 12"; Level 0 (HD 1- 
1); #AT 1; D 1-4 (dagger); AL Any; SZ 
M; XP 10 + 1/hp; usually (80% + ) with 
guards (Level 0 to Level 3 fighters, AC 5 
or better, #AT 1 or 2; D by weapon) 
Pirate, river: AC 7 (leather 1C shield); Level 
0 (HD 1-1, leaders HD 2 + ); #AT 1 or 2; 
D by weapon; AL NE-CE; SZ M, XP 10 
+ 1/hp (leaders extra) 

Wolf: AC 7; MV 18 "; HD 2 + 2; #AT 1; D 2- 
5; SA howl may cause herbivore panic 
(50%); AL N; SZ S; XP 35 + 3/hp 

NULB MILITIA 

At any given time, the basically Neutral 
Evil populace of the village can turn out 
some number of militiamen who are 
roughly equal to bandits (Level 0 normal 
men, not leaders or other exceptional types) 
in armor and weapons. The total number 
depends on the circumstances: 


Village threatened with destruction 60 

Possibly over 1,000 gp loot 40 

Minor loot and easy battle prospects 30 
Village leaders demand service 20 

Party or force to be attacked is Good 10 


In addition, 5-30 actual brigands are in 
Nulb, and turn out if their leaders see the sit 
uation as lucrative enough for their partici 
pation. Whether Tolub's crew (see area 4) is 
in the village or not, 2-12 additional pirates 
likewise participate if the rewards seem 
worthwhile. 


30 




COORDINATED EFFORTS 

The Evil and Good factions in the village 
of Nulb are not isolated groups who act ran 
domly and ignore events elsewhere. If one 
place is attacked, someone is likely to see or 
hear, and spread the word. A serious com 
bat at the Boatmens' Tavern (area 4), for 
instance, attracts everyone from the Water 
side Hostel (area 1), the citizenry (including 
10-40 militiamen), and Otis (area 2), Y'dey, 
and Murfles (area 3) as well. The latter three 
are aware of such reactions, and in most 
cases do not help even Good individuals- 
for that would reveal their true identities 
and betray their greater purpose. 

All this is not to say that a silent, swift, 
and deadly attack upon one place or 
another is always noticed. But if a noisy or 
protracted fight takes place, the results 
might prove unpalatable to those causing 
the problem. 

Otis, Y'dey, and Murfles, as agents of 
Good, must be handled as rational, clever, 
intelligent, thoughtful individuals. They do 
nothing foolish, nor offer aid to unproven 
groups. They will not risk losing their cover 
identities, let alone their lives, for no pur 
pose. Conversely, their participation in a 
death-stroke to the Temple (an expedition 
with purpose, planning, sure goals, and 
solid chances for success) is logical and rea 
sonable. 

In short-play each and every character 
and group as if you yourself were there! 

MERCENARIES 

As noted, a handful of men-at-arms are 
usually in the village, and will serve for pay. 
Because of the repute of the area, these mer 
cenaries are Evil (Neutral or Chaotic) or 
Chaotic Neutral. Such types are in the vil 
lage mainly to seek service with some bandit 
chief or similar person-perhaps even to 
hire on with a minion of the Temple. When 
mercenaries are encountered by PCs, deter 
mine alignment as given on Mercenary 
Table 1. 

The alignment of a leader, of course, 
determines the bent of a group. Evil men-at- 
arms will serve with your players' charac 
ters, but are most likely seeking to rob, 
abandon, or betray them, depending on the 
circumstances. Chaotic Neutral groups are 
just that-and possibly dangerous through 
their unpredictability and avarice. 

If the party is rather on the weak side, you 



should alter the probabilities for merce 
naries rather than involve Otis, Y'dey, or 
Murfles. The players would tend to rely too 
heavily on these NPCs, rather than develop 
ing their own characters' skills. To adjust for 
a party in need of strengthening, use Merce 
nary Table 2. Assume that each time a PC 
enters the Waterside Hostel 5-8 such merce 
naries are present. 

Mercenary Table 1 (Normal) 

1- 3 Chaotic Evil 
4-5 Neutral Evil 

6 Chaotic Neutral 

Mercenary Table 2 (Party in need) 

1 Bandits 

2- 3 Neutral Evil mercenaries 
4-6 Neutral mercenaries 

Leaders 

Mercenaries are led by a second level 
fighter, and if more than six are present, by 
a first level "serjeant" as well. Note that 
these leaders are not added to the total; they 
form part of the stated group of 5-8. They 
do not progress beyond their stated levels. 
Troop Types 

Each group of mercenaries always con 
tains the following types of troops and 
weaponry. Each mercenary has 1-2 daggers 
as well, usable as either thrown or hand 
held weapons. 

Light crossbowmen: 2 

Spearmen: All remaining men 

Swordsmen: Leader + Serjeant 

Armor 

The leader and serjeant have chain mail 
and shield (AC 4). Spearmen have ring mail 
and shield (AC 6). Crossbowmen have 
leather armor and shield (AC 7, AC 8 while 
firing). 

ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING 

If Otis requests aid, Burne (at Hommlet) 
assists magic-users, furnishing them with 
spells for their books at the cost of 1,000 gp 
per spell level. He offers only the following 
spells: 

First level 

burning hands 
magic missile 
protection from evil 
shield 

spider climb 



ventriloquism 

Second level 
audible glamer 
continual light 
levitate 

ray of enfeeblement 
web 

Third level 
dispel magic 
fireball 
suggestion 
tongues 

Furthermore, if Otis happens to be along 
on an adventure during which the true num 
bers and power of the Temple are revealed, 
he informs Burne. The latter will, in turn, 
summon powerful characters from Veluna 
and Verbobonc. They remain in Hommlet, 
but aid in training and preparing the adven 
turers to gain levels of experience. Costs are 
as shown in the AD8J3(r) DUNGEON MAS 
TERS GUIDE, but time is cut by 50% due to 
concentrated efforts. 


31 








Nulb 

Encounter Key 

The village of Nulb is filthy, ramshackle, 
and still fairly active despite the destruction 
of the Temple. The buildings are of turf, 
mud brick, crudely hewn logs, and old tim 
bers from boats. One or two have stone 
foundations and proper boards, but even 
these are in need of repair. The inhabitants 
of the village are boatmen, fishers, herds 
men, farmers, and the like, it is apparent 
that no one manages to make much of a liv 
ing in Nulb, and as it is such a poor place, it 
is generally ignored by lords and bandits 
alike. 

A small amount of commerce moves 
along the Low Road, as well as into Nulb 
from the Velverdyva, as Imeryds Run is 
wide and deep enough for the small river 
vessels to use for offloading cargo and like 
wise embarking it from Nulb, north of the 
ford there. Only four points in the entire vil 
lage are noteworthy. 

1. THE WATERSIDE HOSTEL 

This place is one of the more substantial 
buildings in Nulb. It has a foundation of 
field stone and walls of sawn timber, but is 
nonetheless a scurvy place. Its main trade is 
in its tavern room, though occasional trav 
elers stop to spend the night. Rich guests 
have been known to disappear mysteri 
ously. 

The hostler is a burly fellow with a 
scarred, pockmarked visage, one eye cov 
ered by a patch. The barkeep is lanky and of 
greasy appearance, but quite tall. Two slov 
enly wenches and two manservants of surly 
mein hover about the place. See below for 
full NPC details. 

Prices are low, however, being only half 
those of the Inn of the Welcome Wench in 
Hommlet. (Round down when fixing costs. ) 
In the daytime, only two or three local peo 
ple can be found in the hostel's tavern room 
(0 level farmers, laborers, etc.). At night, 
14-34 (4d6 + 10) roistering folk can be found 
in the tavern room (25% villagers, 25% 
boatmen or bargefolk, 25% transient band 
its or mercenaries, 25% river pirates or 
Temple spies; assume equal chances where 
two possible types of patrons are given). 

Hostler: Dick Rentsch, a swashbuckler 

(Level 5 Fighter); AC 7 (leather armor); 



hp 39; XP 520 

5 17; I 8; W 13; D 15; Co 15; Ch 7 
dagger + 1; purse with 9 pp, 15 gp, 11 sp; 
changes to AC 1 if time permits. 

In his private quarters, Dick has a suit of 
chain mail + 1, shield + 1, battle axe + 1, fk 
normal longsword, and an iron chest with a 
poison needle trap on the lock (save or die). 
The chest, stored under his bed, contains 
673 cp, 325 sp, 17 ep, 108 gp, and 46 pp. 
Dick reports to the Temple's Earth priests. 

Barman: Wat, a waghalter (Level 3 Assas 
sin); AC 5 (leather); hp 22; XP 241; S 16, 

1 12, W 6, D 17, Co 16, Ch 7 dagger of 
venom, purse with 12 cp, 9sp, 21 gp, and 
a bloodstone worth 50 gp. 

In his private room, Wat has a shield + I. 
elven boots, normal longsword and 
shortsword, a pair of matched and balanced 
throwing knives (daggers), and a gold ring 
set with a fire opal (2,000 gp) secreted in the 
hem of an old cloak hanging on a peg. Wat 
serves the Temple s Fire priests. 

Wench: Dala, a cutpurse (Level 3 Thief), AC 

6 (no armor); hp 15; XP 95 

S 11 I 11 W lO D 18 Co 15 Chl3 
Thief abilities: PP 70; OL 48; F/RT 35; MS 
37; HS 30; HN 15; CW 87. 

Carried: dagger (concealed), 1-4 pieces of 
cheap Jewelry (total value 2-12 gp). She 
often picks pockets. 

In a small room upstairs, Dala has a phil 
tre of love and a pair of jeweled earrings 
(worth 700 gp) under a loose floor board, 
and 87 gp in her mattress. She is Dick 
Rentsch's lover. 

Wench: Pearl, a cutpurse (Level 3 Thief), 
AC 8 (no armor); hp 13; XP 89 
S13 I 14 W9 D16 Co 12 Ch 11 
Thief abilities: PP 60; OL 38; F/RT 30; MS 
27; HS 20; HN 15; CW 87. 

Carried: dagger (concealed), 1-4 pieces of 
cheap Jewelry (total value 2-12 gp). She 
occasionally picks pockets, but usually 
limits such work to inebriated victims. 

in a small room upstairs, Pearl has a sil 
ver case (worth 75 gp and adorned with a 
sapphire worth 1,000 gp) which contains 19 
pp. However, the whole is covered with 
thick dripped wax, topped by a half-burnt 
candle and seems to be a perfectly normal 


and worthless candleholder. The coins are 
likewise imbedded in wax to prevent telltale 
rattling. Pearl is Wat's paramour. 

Manservants (2): Both veterans (Level 1 Fight 
ers), hp 8; 7; XP 22; 21; leather armor (will 
change if time permits); dagger (openly 
worn); ability scores average; each has a 
purse with 2-12 sp and 2-8 gp. 

These men sleep in the loft, where each 
has stored a suit of chain mail, a shield, a 
light crossbow with 30 bolts in a case, and a 
longsword. The manservants are guards, 
always alert and ready for a brawl or nefari 
ous duties. They work exclusively for the 
hostler. 

2. SMITHY AND STABLE 

The smith is a very powerful man, with a 
bushy beard and large hands forever work 
ing some piece of iron. He is assisted by a 
dull-witted stable boy' and a rat-faced 
young apprentice. Though the smith's main 
skill is shoeing horses and similar work, he 
can mend armor and do minor weapons 
work, and so is kept quite busy. He is usu 
ally seen drinking quietly (though he brawls 
on occasion) at the Waterside Tavern. 

Chon, Smiths boy: Level 0 local man, AC 
10 (no armor); hp 3; AL NG; XP 8 
S 16 I 6 W 8 D 12 Co 14 Ch 10 
Carried: dagger, purse with 10 cp, 10 sp, 2 

ep, 1 gp 

Sammy, Apprentice Smith: a Veteran (Level 
1 Fighter), AC 4 (chain Ik shield); hp 8; 
AL N; XP 18 

S 17 I 13 D 8 W9 Co 15 Ch 10 
Carried: dagger, purse with 6 cp, 6 sp, 4 ep, 

3gP 

Smith: Otis, a man-at-arms ex-mercenary, 
AC 7 (no armor) or better (see below); 
hp 100; AL NG; XP 5000 
S 18/07 I 15 W 15 D 17 Co 18 Ch 13 
Carried: dagger (and hammer in smithy), 
purse with 1 cp, 4 sp, 7 ep, 2 gp. 
Languages: Common, Alignment, Elvish, 
Gnomish, Ogrish, Sprite. Spells 
(druidical)-detect magic, speak with 
animals, affect normal fires. 

In a secret place beneath the old anvil at 
the rear of his shop, Otis has a suit of chain 
mail + 2, longsword + 2, and a pouch with 


32 















25 gems (a mix of amethysts, chrysoberyls, 
pearls, and tourmalines, each worth 100 
gp). Nearby are his pallet, a chest (contain 
ing clothing and adventuring gear suited to 
his level), a small table and chair, and an 
assortment of old but serviceable weapons 
(including normal longbow, a quiver of 20 
arrows with cold-wrought iron heads, 
shortsword, and cold iron battle axe). 

The smith is secretly a ranger knight 
(Level 10), an agent of the King of 
Furyondy, a Knight Bachelor of Veluna, and 
formerly a watcher of activity in Hommlet. 
Otis claims to be an ex-mercenary. His 
apprentice and "boy" believe this to be true, 
though the former (an alert snoop) knows 
where Otis hides his special equipment. 

Otis will accompany adventurers to the 
Temple of Elemental Evil if the opportunity 
arises. He slays or misleads evil creatures and 
helps those of Good while not unduly risking 
his life. After one or two such expeditions, 
however, he decides that even a Good party 
must go it alone, as he does not wish to reveal 
his true identity and purposes-to be certain 
that some powerful Evil character does not 
loose the prisoner (as, in the Greyhawk Cam 
paign, did Lord Robilar). 

This ranger further assists Good characters 
if in great need, in his guise as a man-at-arms, 
he asks for a suit of chain mail and a long- 
sword, and then substitutes his own magical 
counterparts. His sword glows only upon his 
utterance of a secret rune, so the magic upon it 
may be kept hidden for some time. His "fee" is 
one equal share of treasure gained. Otis is 
Neutral Good, and cooperates with Y'dey and 
Murfles (see area 3,seven special followers- 
Murfles (area 3), two giant owls, and four 
sprites. The owls conceal themselves amidst 
the thick foliage of a mighty oak nearby. By 
night, they watch for and report to Otis any 
activity around the Temple. The sprites are 
from the nearby area, and are thus very famil 
iar with their surroundings. They make a tem 
porary home in a hollow high up the huge 
trunk of a nearby lpp tree (quite near the owls' 
oak), in the small woods to the north of the 
track between Nulb and the Temple. They 
watch by day, reporting to Otis on activity 
around the Temple. 

Owls(2): AC6;MV3'/18";HD4;hp27;2; 
#AT 3; Dmg 2-8/2-8/2-5; SA surprise on 
1-5; SZ M; XP 258; 238 

Sprites (4): AC 6; MV 9"/18"; HD 1; hp 7, 6, 
5, 5, #AT 1 or 2; D dagger (1-4) or arrow 


(1-3); SA surprise 75%, and arrow (victim 
must save vs. poison or sleep 10-60 turns), 
SD move silently, invisible at will (-4 AC 
bonus), SZ S; XP 87, 86, 85, 85 

3. MOTHER SCRENG'S HERB SHOP 

This dilapidated frame building is well 
known in the village as the place to go for all 
sorts of herbs, medicines, and possibly even 
special draughts of one sort or another. 
Mother Screng is old and bent, with 
scraggly gray locks sticking out from 
beneath the aged shawl she wears all year 
'round. Her daughter appears quite old her 
self, so Mother Screng must be venerable. 
This daughter, Hruda by name, is quite 
ugly, and it is no wonder that she is an old 
maid, for her personality matches her looks 
and her tongue is sharp. 

Inside the shop are counters and shelves 
filled with Jars, flasks, bottles, boxes, and 
small drawers. These are stuffed with herbs 
and like stuff, and various infusions and 
decoctions made from such. Bunches ofvege- 
tation ofvarious sorts hang from the rafters or 
are tossed onto counter tops to dry. The shop 
has almost every known herb and spice, and 
even 3 Jars of Keoghtom's ointment which 
Mother Screng sells to any adventurers of 
Good alignment who are in real need of the 
magic salve, after having proved themselves 
in expeditions to the Temple. 

Mother Screng: An herbmonger (also Can- 
oness Y'dey-Level 6 Cleric, XP 3978); 
AC 9 (no armor) or better (see below); 
hp 37; AL NG; XP 1072 
S 13 1 12 W 17 D 15 Co 16 Ch 13 
Carried: club (under the counter), purse 
with 4 cp, 7 sp, 5 ep, 11 gp. Typical 
spells: 

First level: bless, command, cure light 
wounds, detect evil, protection from evil 
Second level: augury, detect charm, hold per 
son, know alignment, speak with animals 
Third level: dispel magic, prayer, remove 
curse 

Hruda: Mother Screngs daughter (a. k.a. 
Murfles, Otis' fellow- adventurer and 
follower, an elven warrior-footpad, 
Level 2/2 Fighter/Thief), AC 6 (no 
armor) or better (see below); hp 12; AL 
NG; XP 156 

S 15 1 9 W 11 D 18 Co 15 Ch 14 
Thief abilities: PP 40; OL 49; F/RT 30; MS 



36; HS 35; HN 15; CW 86. Carried: 
shortsword (under robe), purse with 9 
sp, 5 gp, and 2 pp. 

Y'dey is the chief cleric of the church of 
St. Cuthbert in Hommlet, away on this sab 
batical . She has a suit of plate mail +1, 
shield + 1, mace + 1, ring of (ire resistance, 
potion of flying, a scroll of 3 cleric spells, 
(silence 15' radius, neutralize poison, raise 
dead) and adventuring gear, all kept in her 
chambers. The potion, scroll, and equip 
ment are in a wardrobe, along with a small 
locked iron box which holds 50 gems 
(mostly pearls and a few red spinels, each 
worth 100 gp) and 10 silver ingots worth 10 
gp each. Murfles has a suit of leather armor, 
adventuring gear, a dagger, longsword, 
longbow, and quiver with 11 silver-tipped 
arrows in her chambers. She will lend the 
arrows to deserving adventurers as needed. 
A sack with 290 gp lies under a loose floor 
board. Murfles assists Y'dey and reports to 
Otis about everything of possible interest. 

Neither Y'dey nor Murfles goes on any 
expedition (to the Temple or elsewhere) 
unless Otis personally asks them to do so, 
and has a sound reason for it as they are 
likewise serving Furyondy, Veluna, and the 
cause of Good by keeping watch on Evil 
activity at Nulb and theTemple. Both, how 
ever, assist parties of Good alignment and 
intent. Quiet exploration of the Temple, to 
discover the state of its forces and their cur 
rent intentions, is of great importance to 
both of these 'old hags'. 

A small coop is in the rear of the shop. It 
holds 6 homing pigeons, which Y'dey uses 
for communicating with the Archcleric of 
Veluna. This same information is sent to 
Furyondy (and then to Veluna and Verbo- 
bonc) by way of Otis' regular reports; the 
pigeons are a back-up system. 

4. BOATMENS' TAVERN 8. NULB MARKET 

This large old warehouse building houses a 
small tavern in a back corner. The remainder 
of the place is both a warehouse and general 
store. Various items of soft and hard goods are 
offered here, as well as general provisions and 
fresh seafood. The Boatmens' Tavern is as 
cheap as the bar at the Waterside Hostel-and 
the place is even dirtier and rougher. The 
room can hold about 30 customers, and any 
time after 8:00 AM, 7-12 village folk and half 
as many rivermen from elsewhere can be 
found here, tipping mugs of beer, ale, or wine. 


34 




Proprietor: Skole, an ex-riverman (and 
smuggler, also a swashbuckler), Level 5 
Fighter; AC 8 (leather) or 2 (see below); 
hp 27; AL NE; XP 265 
S 16 I 11 W 14 D 10 Co 13 Ch 10 

Carried: dagger, topaz and silver ring 
(worth 300 gp), purse with 8 cp, 3 sp, 7 
ep, and 12 gp. 

In the back room, Skole has a suit of 
chain mail, a shield + 2, spear +1, and a 
longsword. A loose brick in the fireplace 
can be removed to reveal a cache of 10 gems 
worth 500 gp each (three aquamarines, a 
violet garnet, two black pearls, and four 
peridots) and a woman s platinum necklace 
set with emeralds (8,000 gp). 

Skole is assisted by three normal men (hp 
6, 4, 3, XP 20, 14, 13), each armed with a 
dagger. If time permits, they don scale mail 
and shield (AC 5) and get shortswords. The 
toughest also has a light crossbow with 20 
bolts. Each assistant also has a purse con 
taining 1-6 cp, 1-6 sp, and 1-6 ep. They are 
always working around the place, drinking 
at the tavern, or asleep in their quarters in a 
portion of the loft. 


Barmaid: Lodriss, Level 0, Ability scores 
average; hp 5, no armor, XP 53. Carried: 
normal dagger (tucked into her girdle), a 
poisoned dagger (under her skirt), purse 
with 2 cp, 7 ep, 4 gp, and 8 pp; also wears 
jeweled earrings (worth 400 gp), gold 
neck chains (the lot worth 120 gp), four 
bracelets (values 50, 200, 210, and 500 
gp), and a pair of rings (200 and 800 gp). 

Lodriss is actually the owner of the Boat 
mens' Tavern. She is a former camp fol 
lower, and is now mistress to Tolub (see 
below), one of the river pirate leaders who 
frequents Nulb to sell ill-gotten cargoes and 
to restock supplies. 

Tolub leads a band of 40 river pirates. Only 
a fourth of his crew is here with him; half are 
out sailing on the river, and the rest are guard 
ing his ship. Tolub's crew is detailed below. If 
Tolub is not here, his lieutenant, Grud, proba 
bly is, with an identical crew. To determine 
who is in port at any given time, roll ld6 and 
consult the following chart. 

Pirate crews are at the tavern only after 
dark, when three serving wenches are also 
present. The other 13-18 (ld6 + 12) patrons 
of the place are 0 level men. 


Id6 roll Crew in Port 


1. Both out raiding for 3 days 

2. Tolub in port for 1 night 

3. Tolub in port for 2 days 

4. Grud in port for 1 day 

5. Both crews in for 1 night* 

6. Check again, rolling ld4 

* If both crews are in, double the crew 
shown for Tolub; Grud's crew is identical. 

Pirate leader: Tolub, a superhero (Level 8 
Fighter), AC 3 (leather armor + 1, ring 
ofprotection + 3); hp 62; XP 1520 
S 17 I 9 W 10 D 15 Co 15 Ch 17 
Carried: battle axe + 1, dagger +2, purse 
with 7 ep, 14 gp, and 10 pp; black opal 
ring worth 6,000 gp 

Pirate lieutenant: Grud Squinteye, a myr 
midon (Level 6 Fighter), AC 4 (chain 
mail + 1); hp 59; XP 504 
S 15 I 10 W 10 D 12 Co 17 Ch 14 
Carried: dagger +1, shortsword, flail, 
purse with 2-12 of each coin type; wears 
one earring (worth 600 gp) and a jeweled 
belt (worth 7,300 gp). 

Pirate Crew (for either Tolub or Grud): 


Member 

Level 

hp 

AC 

XP 

Armor 

Weapons 

1st mate* 

4 

23 

4 

177 

Chain + S 

Longsword 

2nd mate 

4 

21 

4 

169 

Chain + S 

Battle axe 

Bosun 

2 

12 

5 

44 

Chain 

Morning star 

B'mate 

0 

6 

4 

16 

Chain + S 

Longsword, axe 

B'mate 

0 

7 

5 

17 

Chain 

Bastard sword 

2 Sailors 

0 

5 

7 

15 

Leather + S 

Longsword 

6 Sailors 

0 

4 

8 

14 

Leather 

Spear, dagger 

4 Sailors 

0 

5 

8 

15 

Leather 

Battle axe 

2 Sailors 

0 

4 

8 

18 

Leather 

Dagger, heavy 

4 Sailors 

0 

3 

8 

17 

Leather 

Axe, light 


The first mate and half of all sailors are aboard ship. Remember, only a fourth of the crew listed above 
are found accompanying either Tolub or Grud. 

Ruins of Elemental Evil 


PLAYERS' DESCRIPTION 

The road leading from Nulb to the Tem 
ple is rutted and spotted with rank 
weeds-thistles, burrs, thorns, nettles, 
etc. Some foot and animal traffic has 
been using the track, but it is not a busy 
thoroughfare. (Most traffic between 
these points avoids using the road, so as 
not to leave a discernable path.) 

As you approach the Temple area, the 
vegetation is disconcerting-dead trees 


with a skeletal appearance, scrub growth 
twisted and unnaturally colored, all 
unhealthy and sickly looking or excep 
tionally robust and disgusting. The ruins 
of the Temple's outer works appear as 
dark and overgrown mounds of gray 
rubble and blackish weeds. Skulls and 
bones of humans and humanoids gleam 
white here and there amidst the weeds. A 
grove of some oddly stunted and 
unhealthy looking usk trees still grows 


along the northern end of the former 
Temple compound, and a stump of a 
tower juts up from the northeast corner 
of the shattered wall. The leprous gray 
Temple, however, stands intact, its 
arched buttresses somehow obscene with 
their growth of climbing vegetation. 

Everything surrounding the place is 
disgusting. The myriad leering faces and 
twisting, contorted forms writhing and 
posturing on every face of the Temple 


35 







seem to jape at the obscenities they depict. 
The growth in the compound is rank and 
noisome. Thorns clutch, burrs stick, and 
crushed stems either emit foul stench or 
raise angry weals on exposed flesh. Worst 
of all, however, is the pervading fear which 
seems to hang over the whole area-a 
smothering, clinging, almost tangible 
cloud of vileness and horror. Sounds seem 
distorted, either muffled and shrill or 
unnaturally loud and grating. 

Your eyes play tricks. You see darting 
movements out of the corner of your 
eye, just at the edge of vision; but when 
you shift your gaze towards such, of 
course, there is nothing there at all. You 
cannot help but wonder who or what 
made the maze of narrow paths through 
the weedy courtyard. What sort of thing 
would wander here and there around the 
ghastly edifice of Evil without shrieking 
and gibbering and going completely 
mad? Yet the usual mundane sounds of 
your travel are accompanied only by the 
chorus of the winds, moaning through 
hundreds of Temple apertures built to 
sing like doomed souls given over to the 
tender mercies of demonkind, echoed by 
macabre croaks from the scattered flap 
ping, hopping, leering ravens. 

There is no doubt; you have come to a 
place of ineffable Evil. Still, it is most cer 
tainly a place for high adventure and untold 
treasures. It is time to ready spells, draw 
weapons, check equipment, and set forth 
into the maze of peril that awaits you. 


EXTERIOR NOTES (for the DM) 

The thrown down works and razed build 
ings are shown on the map by X marks. All 
ground in and around the place is over 
grown by weeds, so observation is restricted 
to 15 feet in any direction with regards to 
objects of six feet or lesser height, except on 
the remains of the road and path. In these 
two areas, weed growth is scattered and 
shallower. The pale blue uskfruit growing 
on the trees is small, misshapen, and 
splotched with angry red patches. One in six 
is poison; the consumer grows sick and dies 
in 24 hours, the first effects of the poison 
being a loss of one point of strength about 
two hours after eating. An additional point 
of strength is lost each hour thereafter, with 
zero strength bringing coma. 


Three areas of the Outer Works are 
described in detail; A. Tower; B. Building 
Ruins; C. Temple. 

RANDOM ENCOUNTERS 

(Upper Works only) 

Roll ld20 each turn; encounter occurs on 
a 1. Roll again for type: 

Roll Result 

1-3 Id6 + 6 bandits (1 Leader 5th level, 
1 3rd level; others have light 
crossbows)* 

4 1 rock reptile, 5 -8' long 

5-8 ld8 + 8 giant ravens add occa 
sional harassment. (A total of 16 
guard the area; once slain, no 
more appear) 

9-12 20-80 (2d4xl0) giant rats (very 

hungry, but flee if 50% or more are 
slain) 

13-20 1 drelb in twilight or darkness; 

otherwise no encounter 

Statistics 

Bandit: AC 7 (leather Ik shield); MV 12"; 
Level 0 (HD 1-1, leaders HD 1 + ), #AT 1 
or 2; D by weapon (longsword, spear, 
light crossbow); AL CE; XP 10 + 1/hp 
(missile firers 14 + 1/hp, leaders extra) 
Drelb: AC 2; MV 6 " ; HD 5 + 3; #AT 1; D 3- 
12; SA chill, size change, SD magic 
weapon to hit, reflect psionics, AL NE; SZ 
M; XP 800 + 6/hp (see MM2 page 60) 
Rat, Giant: AC 7; MV 12 "; HD 1/2 #AT 1; D 
1-3; SA disease (5% per bite); XP 7 + 1/hp 
Raven, giant (16); AC 4; MV 3 /18 ; HD 
3 + 2; #AT 1; D 3-6; AL N(E); SZ M-L (6- 
10 wing); XP 60 + 4/hp 
Rock reptile: AC 3; MV 6"; HD 5 + 5 to 

5 + 12; #AT 1; Dl-4 + l/foot length; SA 
surprise on 1-3; SD chameleon; AL N; 
SZM-L(5-12);XP 00 +7/hp(S)or600 
+ 9/hp (L) 

Note: These bandits work with the brigands 
of the Tower (A, below) but are not part of the 
same group. Do not modify the brigands due 
to encounters with these bandits. 

A. THE BROKEN TOWER 

TOWER EXTERIOR 

This area lies at the northeast corner of 
the Upper Works map. Some general details 
can be discerned from a distance, but do not 



emphasize the Tower's existence to the play 
ers. If the party has not yet slain any ravens, 
read the following description; omit it oth 
erwise, proceeding to the other details if the 
tower is closely investigated. 


The jagged stub of a large tower stands 
up from the razed walls. Two small black 
birds are perched on the tower top, 
about 25 feet up. 


An illusion on the tower top makes all 
creatures thereon appear smaller. These 
birds are, in fact, two of the 16 giant ravens 
which live here and serve as guards and sen 
tries for the bandits detailed below. Most 
ravens are out of sight, roosting on the tim 
bers where the third storey collapsed and 
broke through the second level. Of course, 
if the party has slain all the birds, they find 
none here, only the seemingly deserted 
tower ruin. 


One heavy door can be seen, barred and 
chained shut from the outside. Arrow slits 
are visible on either side of the door, but 
peering in reveals only blackness beyond. 


The bar is a ruse; it can be disengaged from 
inside. Unless this is done, however, those out 
side must break the lock, free the chain, and 
slide the bar before entering the door. 

GENERAL NOTES 

Before you start the following encounter, 
be sure you are familiar with the Tower Map 
(Map 4), the occupants, their Defense Strat 
egy (given below), and the other Combat 
Notes given hereafter. 

Refer to the Tower Map. Four guards are 
on duty at all times, each peering out of an 
arrow slit. Note that the two slits at ground 
level are screened by heavy black felt drap 
eries; anyone trying to peer in from outside 
sees only darkness. Entering by the door, 
one sees low stone walls, a little over waist 
height, leading from the exterior wall to 
support columns. These serve to channel 
entrants through a passage some eight feet 
wide. 

The tower cannot be entered from above; 
the second and third storeys have collapsed, 
forming an impassable jumble. The ravens 
which roost above croak a warning to the 
guards if intruders are sighted. 

The tower interior is lit by a dozen 
torches in sconces. 


36 









This tower is the residence of 26 brigands. 

Raven, giant (16): AC 4; MV 3 /18"; HD 
3 + 2; #AT 1; D 3-6; AL N(E); SZ M-L (6- 
10" wing); XP 60 + 4/hp 

Footmen (8): AC 6; Level 0; hp 6 each; #AT 
1; D 1-8; front rank (4) in ring mail, with 
spear Ik throwing spear; rear rank (4) in 
studded leather Ik shield, with spear and 
longsword; XP 20 each 

Crossbowmen (4): AC 6; Level 0; hp 4 each; 
#AT 1; D 2-5 (bow) or 1-8 (battle axe); 
scale mail; XP 18 each 

Archers (4): AC 5; Level 0; hp 5 each; #AT 2 
or 1; D 1-6/1-6 (shortbow) or 1-6 

(shortsword); in chain mail armor; XP 19 
each 

Guards (5); AC 5; Level 0; hp 5 each; #AT 2 
or 1; D 1-6/1-6 (shortbow) or 1-6 

(shortsword); in chain mail armor; XP 19 
each 

Sergeants (2): AC 4; Level 1 Fighters; hp 11; 
9; #AT 1; D 1-8 (throwing spear or long 
sword) or 1-4 (dagger); in chain mail fk 
shield; XP 25; 23 

Lieutenants (2): AC 2; Level 3 Fighters, hp 
22; 17; #AT 1; D 2-5 (heavy crossbow) or 
2-8 (morning star) 1-6 (spear) or 1-4 
(dagger); plate mail, Dexterity 15; XP 
116 101 

Leader (1): AC 0; Level 6 Fighter; hp 43; 
#AT 1; D 3-10 (longsword +1) or 2-7 
(hand axe) or 2-5 (dagger), chain mail 
armor, shield + 2; XP 558 
S 15 1 13 W 12 D 16 Co 15 Ch 17 

in their coin purses, the brigands have the 
following treasures: 

Leader: 11 gp, 27 pp 

Lieutenant (each): 2-12 ep, 2-12 gp, 2-12 pp 
Serjeant (each): 1-6 sp, 1-6 ep, 1-6 gp 
Guard, archer, crossbowman, footman 
(each): 

1 -6 cp, 1 -6 sp 

DEFENSE STRATEGY 

The positions noted apply only if the PCs 
manage to approach completely undetected 
and somehow learn of the interior arrange 


ments (through invisibility and clairvoy 
ance, for example). 

If the party's approach is seen by either 
guards or ravens, all but two torches are 
immediately extinguished, and brigands 
armed with missile weapons move to cover 
the door. The balance of the men form a 
shield and spear wall, two ranks deep, 
about five feet northeast of the entryway. 
Behind the missile troops, one first and one 
third level brigand take station on each 
flank. Behind the ranks, the sixth level 
leader and one first level brigand stand 
ready to move as the need arises (left, right, 
or upwards). The two guards on the stair 
way, at their arrow slits, remain in position 
to shoot at targets of opportunity. 

As soon as the party attacks the door, the 
remaining torches in the main room are 
extinguished. Lanterns in the two interior 
rooms remain alight, not being normally 
detectable. As soon as the door is opened, 
and invaders (characters) are illuminated or 
silhouetted, the brigands attack with 
arrows, bolts, and spears. If the intruders 
flee, they are fired upon again. If they 
advance, the brigands use flanking fire 
while their forward line engages. 

Combat Notes 

As soon as combat begins, give the bri 
gands the following advantages (assuming 
that the party was observed, and that they 
forced entry through the door): 

a. Only the intruders (party) can be sur 
prised. 

b. The brigands automatically gain initia 
tive in the first round. 

c. Attacking illuminated or silhouetted tar 
gets, the brigands gain a + 2 bonus to all 
"to hit' rolls for all missiles (including 
arrows, bows, and hand-hurled weap 
ons; each round, this should affect six 
arrow shots, two heavy crossbow bolts, 
four light crossbow bolts, and ten 
spears). 

d. A -I penalty applies to all the invaders' 
"to hit" rolls until the tower interior is 
illuminated, and the brigands gain a cor 
responding + 1 bonus for their familiar 
ity with the dark area. 

After the initial round of missiles, the par 
ty's actions determine the lieutenants' 
actions: 

If the party flees, they reload crossbows. 



If the party hesitates, they pick up spears. 

If the party enters, they get morning stars. 

Serjeants either grab extra spears to hurl 
or draw swords. Guard-archers continue 
missile fire. Light crossbowmen reload if 
possible, or drop their crossbows and grab 
battle axes for melee. 

Front rank brigands draw swords and 
advance one pace, while rear ranks level 
their second (long) spears and move up. The 
sixth level leader and his first level serjeant 
ready their hurling weapons for fast release, 
followed by movement to any threatened 
area. 

If the party hurls oil or otherwise attacks 
with a serious threat, the leader moves rap 
idly to the south-central pillar and releases a 
chain there. This triggers a fall of several 
hundredweight of rocks and loose stone. 
Each victim in range (the entry area 
bounded by the door and low walls) takes 1- 
12 points of rockfall damage, is stunned for 
the following round, and blinded by a chok 
ing cloud of dust which settles in two 
rounds. Meanwhile, the brigand leader 
dashes to his room (area 3), slams and bars 
the door, and enters the secret trap door. 

TOWER AREA DESCRIPTIONS 

1. MAIN ROOM 

There is little in the place other than the 
rude tables, benches, chairs, and stools. 
Heaps of old blankets and brown cloaks lie 
by the walls, and several sacks near them 
are filled with foodstuffs. On the tables are 
bottles of cheap wine (mostly consumed), 
knucklebones, dirty plates and mugs, and 
nothing else. 

The brigands obviously live in the place, 
eating, sleeping and gaming while awaiting 
further raids. If the rafters are examined, 
various smoked meats, sausages, and bags 
of onions and herbs can be seen. All told, 
the provisions here can supply all the bri 
gands for a full week. Under the ascending 
stone spiral staircase are five large barrels. 
The two largest contain water; the next two, 
beer. The smallest (about 40 gallons) is 
nearly full of wine-the same sour, cheap 
stuff on the tables. A bale of blankets is 
stuffed under the stairs, evidently loot from 
some hapless merchant. 


37 





2. NORTH ROOM 

This place quarters the two lieutenants 
and the three sergeants. In addition to the 
five rough beds, the room contains a round 
table, three stools, a chest of drawers with a 
lantern atop it (and nothing but old clothes 
and the like inside), and a padlocked iron- 
bound oak chest, inside the latter is a potion 
of healing, a sack of 300 ep, a jeweled dag 
ger (worth 250 gp), and four bolts of silk 
(worth 10-60 gp each). 

3. NORTHEAST ROOM 

This is the leader's private chamber. He 
has a comfortable bed heaped with quilts 
and pillows, a table and two chairs, a small 
desk and stool, a chest of drawers, and a 
padlocked iron box. 

On the table are a few pewter dishes, a 
bottle (full of good brandy), and some 
slightly wrinkled apples. 

Inside its fold-down top, the desk holds 
some quills, an inkwell, and several sheets 
of parchment. One sheet bears a list of pos 
sible victims (including the jeweller at Hom- 
mlet). The other sheets are blank, but if the 
correct one is held up to a strong light, a 
map is revealed, showing the secret tunnel 
out of the tower-and into the third level of 
the Temple dungeon, if entry is desired. 

The chest of drawers conceals a short 
sword with a topaz pommel (total value 500 
gp), a suit and hooded cloak of brown vel 
vet trimmed with fur (200 gp), plus normal 
clothing and odds and ends. 

The iron chest is trapped with poison nee 
dles, which project to either side of the lid 
when it is raised. Inside are 384 cp, 556 sp, 
106 ep, 277 gp, and 91 pp. 

One flagstone can be lifted to reveal a 
bronze ring, set into the floor. The pivot is 
undetectable by normal sight, and the flag 
stone locks into place. It is mechanically 
linked to the trap door beneath, which is 
counterbalanced to raise and lower with 
ease and but little noise. If the trap door is 
closed from below, the flagstone also closes 
neatly. The shaft below is about three feet 
square, and bronze rungs lead 30 feet down 
to a small chamber. In this 10'x 15' room 
are the following: 

Small, flat silver box (worth 125 gp) con 
taining a jeweled necklace (2,400 gp) 
Cloak ofelvenkind, hanging on a peg by the 
entrance of the passage leading to the west 




Large pouch with a leather strap for shoul 
der slinging, containing 50 tiny pearls 
(base 10 gp each) and a leather bag (con 
taining 50 pp) 

Longbow and quiver with nine arrows + 1 
Locked bronze coffer containing three 
potions speed, extra healing, and water 
breathing) 

Locked iron box, containing800gpand200ep 

The fleeing leader immediately dons or 
picks up all but the last two items, if time per 
mits, he drinks or takes the potion of extra 
healing. If he hears pursuit, he probably (75% 
chance) drinks the potion ofspeed. He proba 
bly (75%) ignores the potion of water breath 
ing. He then runs down the west passage and 
out to escape. If successful, he visits Nulb at 
night and then leaves the area on horse, seek 
ing better things in Dyvers or somewhere 
across the Nyr Dyv. 

4. ESCAPE TUNNEL 

This five-foot-wide passage is hewn from 
the bedrock underlying the Temple com 
plex, evidently following a natural fissure in 
the limestone. It bears generally west, 
though it has many curves. In places it is not 
worked at all, and there the width varies 
from four to eight feet. About 540 feet 
along, it opens into a small natural cave. 
The north wall of this 40' oval chamber is 
marked by a three-foot wide opening. (A 
secret entrance to Dungeon Level Three, 
area 335, is concealed in the eastern portion 
of the south wall by a balanced, pivoting 
stone slab. The passage concealed is three 
feet wide and leads 600 feet south, slanting 
downwards rather steeply. At its end is a 10 
wide stone passage east, turning south in 30 
feet; see the Dungeon Level map and key.) 

The narrow north passage leads north 
and gradually west, ascending slowly over 
about 200 feet. It then turns due north again 
for another 100 feet, where the limestone 
gives way to clay walls shored up by tim 
bers for 50 feet. The escape tunnel mouth is 
at the side of an abandoned dry well. A 
small heavy door there is set back from the 
side of the shaft and painted dull brown, 
barred from the inside. A short ladder can 
be set up inside the shaft, enabling the 
escaping party to gain a series of ascending 
ledges which lead to the top. The ladder is 
inside the tunnel. 

(The position of this exit is indicated by 
an X on the large area map, deep in the 


woods north of the Temple, towards the 
Velverdyva.) 

Near the tunnel exit are a deserted cottage 
and a ramshackle barn. This whole area is 
screened by surrounding trees. In the barn 
are six light horses, which belong to the bri 
gand leaders. They are fed and exercised 
each night in most cases. 

B. BUILDING RUINS 

This area lies northwest of the Temple, 
concealed by some dense woods to the 
south and southeast. 


As with all of the razed works of the 
Temple, the outlines of this place are dis- 
cernable even though the whole is tum 
bled, burned and broken. Broken bricks, 
bits of charred beams, and broken plas 
ter are heaped in the shell of the lower 
storey. Parts of a narrow outside stair 
way on the west side can be seen through 
the rubble. The stairs lead down to a 
dark, small opening, through which a 
person might crawl. 


There is no evidence of heavy traffic here; 
no footprints of men or beasts, save a few 
rat tracks. The boxed space on the map indi 
cates the stair and hole, where a foolish 
adventurer might gain access to what 
remains of the building's cellar. As soon as 
anyone crawls down in, 12 giant rats scurry 
forth and attack. Note that all shield and 
dexterity protection is lost here; the area is 
too cramped and cluttered. Rats attack 
crawling victims with a + 4 bonus "to hit." If 
retreat is immediate, the rats do not follow. 
Otherwise, additional waves of rats (3-18 
per wave, with 2 hp each) attack on melee 
rounds 3, 7, and 12. 

Rats, Giant (12): AC 7; MV12 "; HD 1/2 hp 3 
each; #AT 1; Dl-3; SA disease; XP 10 each 

The cellar contains nothing but litter and 
filth, if an old mat in the northeast corner is 
lifted, a trapdoor leading to a hidden wine cel 
lar is discovered. A short flight of steps leads 
to this 20' square room, containing dozens of 
barrels and a rack of earthenware flasks. The 
barreled wine is cheap-drinkable but sour. 
The 68 stoneware containers all hold very 
excellent wine; each is worth 1-6 gp, or 3 gp 
each if the lot is sold off at once. A keg of very 
ancient brandy is also hidden here, and will 
fetch the sum of 400 gp in Hommlet or any 
place other than Nulb. 


38 





C. THE TEMPLE 

FIRST IMPRESSIONS 

Careful inspection of the structure, 
including a trek around its exterior, reveals 
the following. 

The oddly peaked and gabled roof seems 
to set the viewer s teeth on edge. The grue 
some visages glaring from the walls are 
everywhere-as projecting ornaments, as 
supports, in bas-relief, etc. 

The place is huge. It extends over 450 feet 
north and south, and is nearly 450 feet 
across at its widest. The walls rise about 30 
feet, supported by arched buttresses and 
many pilasters. The roof peak is about 20 
feet higher than the walls, making the whole 
edifice no less than 50 feet tall. 

Only three doors are visible, all at the 
south end of the Temple. The narrow win 
dows appear to be barred. 

SEALED DOORS 

Four pairs of huge bronze doors are 
located within the Temple areas. The first 
pair is the Grand Entrance (Upper Works 
area 1), and will be encountered early in the 
adventure. Other doors are within the 
dungeon at areas 145, 210, and 352. 

Each pair of doors is held fast by huge 
iron chains, and all cracks are sealed with 
soft iron. Graven upon each portal are mag 
ical runes which glow in a silvery radiance. 

These portals are the binding forces 
which even now confine the demoness Zug- 
gtmoy to the dungeon (Level Three). If one 
or more pairs of doors are sundered, Zuggt- 
moy gains some freedom and additional 
powers; see area 353 for detailed notes, as 
well as the monster description in Appendix 
B. Show diagram 10 to the players when 
ever a character approaches within 10 feet 
of any pair of these doors. The intruder 
must make a saving throw vs. spells, apply 
ing a -2 penalty to the roll, to resist the pow 
erful permanent antipathy magic 
represented by the silvery runes. Failure to 
save means that the character cannot 
approach within 10 feet of those doors, and 
is likewise forever blocked from the other 
portals of like dweomer found in the 
dungeon. The victim cannot even bear to 
look upon the silvery runes. 

if the saving throw succeeds, another 
must still be made whenever the character 



39 







again comes within 10 feet of the same por 
tals, or of like portals elsewhere. Any fail 
ure to save produces the effect noted above. 

If the doors are successfully approached, 
the intruder may try to break them down. 
However, this is an impossible task to normal 
strength and most magic. Strength of 20 or 
more might succeed; check the standard 
chance to open a wizard locked door for a 
character or creature of appropriate strength 
(c. f. girdle ofgiant strength, DMG page 145): 


Strength 

Chance to Open 

20 

1-3 on ld6 

21 

M on ld6 

22 

1-4 on ld6 

23 

1-5 on ld6 

24 

1-7 on ld8 

25 

1-9 on 1 d 10 


If the attempt succeeds, the doors are bro 
ken asunder and their dweomer ruined. 


TEMPLE AREA DESCRIPTIONS 
1. GRAND ENTRANCE 


The bronze doors of the entry (23 1 high, 
20' wide) are held fast by huge iron 
chains, and all cracks are sealed with soft 
iron. Graven upon these massive valves 
are runes. You note that the writing 
glows and seems to burn with silvery 
radiance, making your eyes teary. 


Show diagram called "Entrance Runes," 
to the players. Make a Saving Throw vs. 
Spells for each character, applying a -2 pen 
alty. A major casting of an antipathy spell 
has been made permanent upon the portal. 
Each creature within 10' is affected unless 
the noted saving throw is successful. All 
who fail will shun the doors and will not 
look upon the runes. If all fail, take back the 
players' rune sheet. Read the following 
description to those examining other areas. 


Those of you not examining the main 
entry have noted that the vile stained 
glass windows of the place are intact. 
You can enter by breaking the main door, 
or you can check the smaller bronze- 
wood doors around the corners to the 
east and west. (Bronzewood is a dense, 
very hard wood, tougher than oak.) 


Though these side doors are heavy and 
thick, both can be broken open. Each is 
locked and barred, but 50 points of damage 
effects entry. The windows are high and too 
narrow to permit passage to a man in 
armor. Each is barred and spiked with 
bronze. 

2. VESTIBULE 


The floor of this area is reddish brown 
slate-like stone squares, each about 2 feet 
square. The walls are plastered and 
painted with scenes befitting the nature 
of the Temple-disgusting acts, killing, 
torture, enslavement, robbery, thievery, 
and unspeakable things. The creeds of 
the worshippers here are all too evident. 
Evil is flaunted and lionized. Dim light 
filters through the stained glass win 
dows, casting revolting colors upon the 
greenish stones of the floor to the north. 

In that direction you can see the nave 
of the Temple. The pillars to either hand 









are of a pinkish mineral, shot through 
with worm-colored veins. Their arches 
lead to an unremarkable pair of lesser 
side aisles. The columns supporting the 
archways, as well as the arches themsel 
ves, are worked in bas relief. As with the 
frescoes in the entryway, the scenes here 
are ineffable, vile, filthy. It is probable 
that this area was reserved for the lowli 
est of worshippers. The area beyond is 
better lit and more open, though it also 
has more of the nauseating pinkish pil 
lars supporting the roof high overhead. 


3. CENTRAL ALTAR 


The pillars here are white marble, veined 
with ugly red. The altar block of pinkish 
white marble is roughly oval something 
over 7 feet long by 5 feet wide, its top has a 
hollowed out portion resembling a human 
form, with legs apart and arms away from 
the body. This depression is stained a 
darker color than the rest. Just north of the 
altar is a circular, marble-lined pit-a well 
of sorts-20 feet in diameter. Shards of 
broken crystal vessels lie about the well, 
near the altar, and scattered about the 
floor. A crystal knife with a broken blade 
lies atop the stone block. 


Careful examination of the well reveals a 
one-foot wide ledge beginning 15 feet from 
the mouth of the shaft. It circles the north 
ern face of the well, leading to narrow, steep 
steps which spiral down clockwise from the 
east. The shaft is 85 feet deep. If characters 
descend here, see Dungeon Level One (area 
131} and Dungeon Level Two (area 210). 

4. EAST ALTAR 


The thick stone columns here are deep 
green, with blood-red striations. The 
paving blocks are mossy green, with a 
circular dais-like area about 20 feet in 
diameter in the center part of the wing. 


Continue only if PCs move in for closer 
examination. 


The dais is two-tiered; each rises about 
18 inches, the inner being 14 feet in diam 
eter, thus forming a three feet wide step 
along the rim of the lower tier. The lower 



disc is greenish black stone; the upper, 
blackish green. The center of this altar is 
a depression about eight feet across, 
filled with scummed-over black liquid. 
Several pieces of smashed shells are scat 
tered around the area, along with a bro 
ken bronze knife. 


The black liquid is merely dirty water, six 
feet deep. If the pool is dragged, a small and 
delicate skeleton is discovered at the bot 
tom, the remains of the last sacrifice. 

4a. EAST VESTRY 


This area was apparently a vestry. Bits of 
broken altar service are present here 
also, with a broken trident and pieces of 
torn, scorched robes of a moss-green 
hue. Other rubble includes several 
smashed benches, a small broken table, 
and a thrown-down wardrobe with one 
side kicked in and the doors torn off. A 
flight of stairs descends to the southwest. 


Linder the wardrobe lie three moss-green 
robes, lined with black satin. Each has a 
cowl. All are soiled but otherwise in good 
condition, but are obviously of little worth. 
If the stairs are used, refer to Dungeon Level 
One, southeast corner (area 109a). 

5. WEST ALTAR 


The supporting pillars in this wing are 
sandstone, resting on a red slate floor. 
Bits of broken pottery and sharp bits of 
rock cover the floor here, making walk 
ing about a risky business. The stump of 
a granite monolith, and chunks of 
brownish-red rock around its base, indi 
cate that the altar was violently assaulted 
and destroyed. A few links of bronze 
chain, a twisted manacle, and a bronze- 
wood maul with a snapped haft add to 
the impression that the enemies of the 
Temple who did this must have found the 
altar very hateful indeed. 


5a. WEST VESTRY 


This seems to be a vestry. A broken 
rhondite bowl and ewer lie in a corner, 
apparently flung in anger and now shat 



tered and useless. The interior of each is 
caked with a dry brown substance. 
Pieces of furniture are also scattered 
about, as are the torn remains of some 
brown garments and three stubs of 
brown candles. A flight of stairs 
descends to the southeast. 


Two of the brown robes are a bit frayed 
but intact. The candles are normal, each 
about three inches long. The steps lead 
down to Dungeon Level One, southwest 
corner (area 109a). 

6. SMALL DOOR 


This door opens into a small vestry. 
Pieces of broken glass and splinters of 
crystal lie scattered within. Someone evi 
dently made a fire in the far corner, as 
bits of charred wood and cloth lie on the 
floor, and the rafters overhead are black 
ened with soot. A pile of robes, once 
ivory-colored, lie in the center of the 
room. They are soiled and stained with 
excrement. 


if the party looks carefully overhead, a 
bit of whitish color can be seen amidst the 
rafters ten feet above. This is an intact ivory 
robe, with cowl, edged and embroidered 
with reddish-pink whorls and lined with 
pale blue satin. 

7. GRAND STAIRCASE 


A flight of steps, 20 feet wide and each 
step broad and tall, delves down to the 
north. The stone is a dull gray, but flecks 
of color-white, blue, red, green, and 
black-dot its surface. 

To the north of the staircase is a stone 
railing, with supports of white, brown, 
and green stone alternating; its upper 
portion is cinnebar. The floor beyond is 
paved with three-foot squares of highly 
polished red granite. The square 
columns of some type ofyellowish stone 
are carved in bas relief, and painted to 
show scenes of fire and suffering with 
demonaic creatures leering on. 


41 













9. EAST DOOR 



If PCs proceed down the flight of steps, 
they come to a 10 landing and a pair of mas 
sive double doors which exactly duplicate 
those at the entrance (area #1). These are 
sealed with soft iron, chained, padlocked, 
and likewise bear the silvery glowing warn 
ing glyphs. The permanent antipathy is also 
here, requiring the same saving throw, 
again with a -2 penalty. However, those 
who failed the saving throw at the entrance 
are not here entitled to another; they auto 
matically shun and refuse to look at the 
runes. Those who succeeded at first but fail 
here are always affected by antipathy when 
ever any identical set of runes is confronted. 

If the party eventually breaks open these 
doors, they enter Dungeon Level One, area 
145. 

8. HIGH ALTAR 


A huge bronze vessel chased with copper 
stands here. Its six legs hold it slightly 
more than a foot above the floorstones. 
The basin-like pot is eight feet in diame 
ter. Its bottom is filled with old charcoal, 
bits of blackened bone, and undefinable 
lumps. A piece of chain still hangs over 
this altar, and evidently others similar 
once also hung there, but their bronze 
links were broken, and short pieces lie on 
the floor around the area. The altar's rim 
is dented and cut, as if struck by many 
hard blows. 


This portal is finely carved, but most of 
the vile and obscene work has been 
hacked and chopped so as to efface its 
evil. Beyond is another vestry, a cham 
ber nearly 30 feet wide and 60 feet long. 
It once must have been the scene of 
debauched revels, for the remains of 
great couches, tables, and padded chairs 
are strewn about. Charcoal and several 
broken barrels lie nearby. A stack of res 
inous faggots near the door seem to be 
the only things not broken or disarrayed. 
Amidst the litter are several skeletons, 
probably human. One wears the tattered 
remains of a scarlet robe. 


Behind the lengths of wooden faggots is a 
small cupboard, set into the wall. Within it 
are two silk robes of bright crimson, with 
skulls embroidered in gold thread on the 
front and back. Each is cowled and lined 
with lavender silk. 

10. DAIS AND THRONE 


The dais extends south into the Temple, 
forming a circular area. The floor, steps, 
and walls are black basalt, highly pol 
ished and gleaming. Four steps lead to 
the upper platform, and upon it is a great 
throne of purplish basalt, with leering 
demon faces and carved grinning skulls. 
Above the throne, the following words 
in the common tongue are chiseled into 
the curving wall: 


THE POWER OF ELEMENTAL DEATH 
BRINGS MORTALS LOW 
BUT RAISES THE NAMELESS ONE 
HIGH 

The flags upon which the throne sets 
are ten-foot squares of granite, set in a 
mosaic pattern; 


Sketch or describe the pattern in detail for 
the players. If detected, note that the per 
vading evil is stronger here than elsewhere. 
A faint dweomer also radiates from the 
entire area. 

The huge throne is carved of solid stone, 
immobile, and cannot be destroyed by any 
thing but disintegrate or wish. Other spells, 
including those which affect rock or stone, 
have no effect. 

The throne can be ordered to sink to the 
Greater Temple (Dungeon Level Three, area 
352). Only a limited wish or greater spell 
can detect this movement capability. The 
possessor of the Orb of Elemental Death 
(Dungeon Level Three, area 322) knows 
how to operate the throne merely by gazing 
upon it (magically becoming aware of the 
command words to make it lower or rise) 
and can control the throne by sitting on it 
while holding the Orb. 

The throne can otherwise be activated by a 
wish, or by the following procedure. The user 
must step on the four color slabs directly 
before the throne, in proper order-brown, 
white, green, red-and then speak the name 
of Zuggtmoy. The throne thereafter sinks to 
area 340 when anyone sits upon it. 



42 























Part 3: 

Dungeons of Elemental Evil 


The Temple dungeons are a busy place, for the 
underground is still alive with followers of the 
defeated cult. They are engaged in various 
struggles amongst themselves, forgetting the 
common enemy Good. A few individuals and 
groups still strive to unite the factious adher 
ents of Zuggtmoy and Elemental Evil; most, 
however, seek to place themselves at the head 
of the conjoined group. Because of this rivalry 
and internal strife, adventurers can fairly eas 
ily penetrate the Temple dungeons, whether 
disguised or not. 

This is not to say that attacks won't often be 
made upon the party, regardless of any dis 
guise! For example, characters wearing the 
robes of the priests and servants of Elemental 
Earth will likely be attacked by the other three 
elemental groups (if they perceive the party to 
be weak) or by other bands dwelling beneath 
the Temple. Another benefit of the power strug 
gle is that no concerted effort to free Zuggtmoy 
has been mounted. All of this will become 
clearer and more detailed as you read through 
the encounter explanations for each level. 

STANDARD CORRIDORS 

Unless noted otherwise, corridors are of dressed 
stone blocks or worked from the natural lime 
stone (or granite, in the lower depths). Walls 
and floors are smooth and polished wherever 
possible. The 10' wide corridors have gothic 
arches, peaking at about 17 height. The 20' 
and 30' passages and spaces have roman 
arches, about 30' tall. Unless otherwise 
described, doors are of oak, hornwood, or 
bronzewood. Each is about three inches thick, 
bound with bronze, and set with a large ring on 
each side. Cressets and sconces are along the 
walls, and unlit torches rest in most of the latter. 
In 10' wide corridors, sconces are at 10' inter 
vals. Cressets in wider passages are at 30' inter 
vals. Both are staggered left, right, left, right 
(etc.), and unlit unless specified. 

STAIRS 

All stairways are steep, with one-foot risers. 
The large one is of polished stone and specif 
ically detailed (area 148 et al.). Small ones 
are hewn from solid rock. Though not espe 
cially old, the stairs are already worn from 
the passing of many feet. 

VENTILATION 

Drafts and less noticeable air currents exist 
aplenty in the Temple dungeons. The builders 


worked many small vents and air shafts into 
the place to assure proper ventilation. Rooms 
are thus usually warmed by braziers. Torch 
smoke does not linger near ceilings, let alone 
at lower levels or in corridor or chamber. 
Strange odors and odd noises are borne on 
gusts of air. The hollow, echoing underground 
ways are rife with musty, damp, feral, foetid, 
and more noisome scents. 

MAP NUMBERING 

Due to the size of the whole complex, the 
encounter areas are coded, rather than num 
bered sequentially. The first digit indicates the 
Dungeon Level. Area I of Level 1 becomes 
101; area 29 of level 2, 229; and so forth. 

AREA DESCRIPTIONS 

All DM notes are arranged in order of their 
probable use. Some areas also contain boxed 
information to be read to the players. Many 
encounters involve immediate combat, and 
the area descriptions are then revealed after 
the melee. In general, read the full contents of 
each encounter before starting it, to be sure 
that all the details are properly used and 
revealed in their proper sequence. 

The standard abbreviations of PH, 
DMG, UA, MM1, MM2, and FF are used 
(with page numbers) whenever these 
ADfkD game references are needed-the 
PLAYERS HANDBOOK, DUNGEON 
MASTERS GUIDE, UNEARTHED 
ARCANA, MONSTER MANUAL (1), 
MONSTER MANUAL II, and FIEND 
FOLIO(tm) Tome, respectively. 

PRISONERS 

When human and demi-human prisoners 
are found and rescued (i.e. taken out of the 
dungeon), the XP value given for each 
should be applied to the party's total, as if 
they were defeated monsters. Conversely, if 
the prisoners are slain, the characters lose 
triple the XP values given. Deduct the 
amounts from the other awards earned. If 
such prisoners are simply turned loose in the 
dungeon, no XP award is earned, but no 
deductions apply. 

Experience point values of other prisoners 
are also given. For monsters of the same general 
alignment as the majority of the party, treat 
them as above. If otherwise, award no XP if 
they are slain, and deduct triple the XP value if 
they are turned loose in the dungeon. 


TREASURE 

Adventurers may find many coins and gems 
herein, and such will be fairly easy to remove 
and spend. A base value is given for each gem 
found loose; roll IdlO for each gem recovered 
to check for increase or decrease of worth 
beyond the noted value (DMG, page 26). Jew 
elry should likewise be checked using ld8, as 
explained on the same page. 

Note, however, that not all of the treasure 
is cash. A typical assortment of potions, 
scrolls, and other magical treasures are 
present. Furthermore, many common but 
finely crafted accessories-serving sets, 
plates and cups, tapestries, and the like- 
are quite valuable, though not quite as 
immediately negotiable. And for the excep 
tionally industrious, even normal armor 
and weapons abound to such a degree that, 
assuming half book value as the resale price, 
nearly 10,000 gp worth of such items can be 
taken from the Temples inhabitants! 

RECRUITING 

All factions of the Temple are active in this 
crucial area. Agents roam near and far to 
bring all sorts of evil humans and human 
oids into service. River pirates and brigands 
are major sources. Humanoids come from 
all quarters. Any group of humans or small 
humanoids within the dungeon is able to 
replace its losses (to adventurers) at the rate 
of one per day. Larger humanoids (3 + 1 or 
more Hit Dice) can replace one each three 
days; monsters can replace their numbers at 
the rate of one per week. 

If the Temple forces are not heavily 
pressed by the party, they actually grow at 
the rates given above. Note, however, that 
once the leaders of a group are eliminated, 
neither they nor their forces can be repaired. 

ZUGGTMOY BOUND 

The demoness is imprisoned is a room of 
Dungeon Level Three, and cannot free herself. 
Four huge bronze gates exist within the 
dungeon complex, the first found at the Grand 
Entrance (area 1), the others described in areas 
145, 210, and 340. If the lowest pair of valves 
(340) is destroyed, Zuggtmoy is free to roam 
areas 339-353. If the gates at 210 are opened as 
well, she is free to roam the second and third 
dungeon levels. If the gates of area 145 are fur 
ther sundered, she can also roam dungeon 
levels one and four. If all the gates are 
destroyed, Zuggtmoy is completely freed. 


43 




GOALS 

The fourth level of the dungeon is the true 
climax to the whole campaign. The PCs 
must be strong enough to adventure there, 
and to enter the Elemental Nodes (partial 
planes). These areas are challenges, of 
course, but they are testing grounds of the 
fitness of those who seek to slay Zuggtmoy. 

If the PCs are careless on the fourth level 
and bring luz to the scene, only the inter 
vention of St. Cuthbert himself will save 
them from certain death and utter destruc 
tion. The factions of the Temple- reflecting 
the true spirit of Chaotic Evil- should suf 
fice to enable Good characters to win 
through, to both the Elemental Nodes and 
the prison of Zuggtmoy. Power comes in 
overthrowing the denizens of the Greater 
Temple; the ability to beard Zuggtmoy in 
her lair comes from the magic and weapons 
found in the Elemental Nodes. The anticli 
max comes when the party finally reaches 
the portion of the third level wherein Zuggt 
moy is bound. 

As a final note, you might find it interest 
ing to have each gem taken from the Throne 
of Zuggtmoy allow entry to and exit from 
one plane of the Abyss. This assumes, of 
course, that you desire to develop such 
areas. (This is a tall order, but it can cer 
tainly make an interesting campaign. See 
module Q-l Queen of the Demonweb Pits 
for direction as to what an Abyssal Plane 
can be like.) With or without such develop 
ment, it is strongly suggested that you place 
this campaign within some sort of devel 
oped background - the WORLD OF 
GREYHAWK(tm) Fantasy World Setting being 
the natural one, as this work was drawn 
from it. Your own can be made to serve as 


well, with a bit of work. 1 certainly hope 
that you and your players find this exten 
sive module an interesting and enjoyable 
scenario, one which offers challenge and 
opportunity while heightening your own 
heroic fantasy campaign! 

CLUES 

Try to encourage players to gather knowl 
edge as well as treasure, to maximize the 
fruits of the adventure. 

in area Z16, characters may find a scroll 
bearing a short and cryptic poem. For your 
reference, this note refers to the contents of 
area 334. The recovery of Fragarach can be of 
great importance not only to this scenario but 
to the larger campaign events in progress. 

As the key to final success against Zuggt 
moy hinges on the recovery of the Orb of 
Golden Death (described in Appendix D), the 
following poem should be introduced at a con 
venient point. The exact method is left to the 
DM. After any dungeon level is entered, if any 
Neutral player character revisits the Jaroo, the 
Druid of the Grove in Hommlet (for shelter, 
advice, etc.), he may bring out an old parch 
ment bearing the clue. A Lawful Good charac 
ter visiting the Church of St. Cuthbert (in 
Hommlet) for similar reasons can likewise 
receive the poem, by means magical or mun 
dane. (Of course, such a character could not 
actually employ the Orb, so this route is not 
optimum.) At last resort, if PCs lack the 
opportunity for such contacts or fail to gather 
enough background information, you might 
introduce the clue in a dream, simply reciting 
it to one or more players as you see fit. 


The Two united, in the past, 

a Place to build, and spells to cast. 

Their power grew, and took the land 
and people round, as they had planned. 
A key without a lock they made 
of gold and gems, and overlaid 
with spells, a tool for men to wield 
to force the powers of Good to yield. 

But armies came, their weapons bared, 
while evil was yet unprepared. 

The Hart was followed by the Crowns 
and Moon, and people of the towns. 

The Two were split; one got away 

but She, when came the judgment day, 
did break the key, and sent the rocks 
to boxes four, with magic locks. 

in doing so, She fell behind 

as He escaped. She was confined 
among Her own; her very lair 
became her prison and despair. 

The Place was ruined, torn apart 

and left with chains around the heart 
of evil power-but the key 
was never found in the debris. 

He knows not where She dwells today. 

She set the minions' path, the way 
To lift Her Temple high again 

With tools of flesh, with mortal men. 
Many now have gone to die 

in water, flame, in earth, or sky. 

They did not bear the key of old 

that must be found-the orb of gold. 

Beware, my friend, for you shall fall 
unless you have the wherewithal! 
to find and search the boxes four 
and then escape forevermore. 

But with the key, you might succeed 

in throwing down Her power and greed. 
Destroy the key when you are done 
and then rejoice, the battle won. 


44 


























Dungeon 
Level One 

RANDOM ENCOUNTERS 

Roll d% once per turn and refer to the fol 
lowing chart. (A result of 11 or more means 

no encounter.) If Zuggtmoy is free to roam 

this level, she appears if the result is 00. 

IdlOO Result 

01-02 ld6 + 6 brigands, with a 2nd level 
fighter leader, coming to report on 
outside activity. Each has ld6 gp, 
3d6 gp for leader. 

03-05 ld4+ 1 gnolls, entering to take 
service with the forces of the Earth 
Temple; no treasure. 

06-07 1 d4 + 1 ghouls, prowling for prey. 
Each may (50%) have 2-12 gp, and 
might (10%) have a bloodstone 
(base value 50 gp). 

08 In 10 corridor, 1 gelatinous cube 
with normal treasure; otherwise, 1 
gray ooze, no treasure. 

09 1 ogre with indigestion, looking 

for trouble; no treasure. 

10 Patrol: 6 men-at-arms plus 1 
leader (L3 fighter). May be 
encountered once only; see area 
149 (Guard Room). 

11-99 No encounter. 

00 Zuggtmoy (if free). 

Details 

Brigands (7-12): AC 8 (leather armor), MV 
12", Level 0 (HD 1-1), #AT 1 or 2, D by 
weapon, SA half have shortbows (D 1- 
6/1-6, range 6"/12 "18") with 40 arrows; 
ALNE-CE, XP 10 + 1/hpor 14+ 1/hp 

Gnolls (2-5); AC 5, MV 9", HD 2, #AT 1, D 
2-8 (bastard sword), SA throwing axes 
(D 1-6/1-4, ranges 1 "/2"/3"); AL CE, SZ 
L (7 1 + ), XP 28 + 2/hp 

Ghouls (2-5): AC 6, MV 9", HD 2, #AT 3, D 
1-3/1-3/1-6, SA touch paralyzes; AL 
CE, SZ M, XP 65 + 2/hp 

Gelatinous Cube: AC 8, MV 6", HD 4, hp 
18, #AT 1, D 2-8, SA surprise on 1-3, 
paralysis, SD affected only by blows, 
fire, or cold, AL N, SZ L, XP 150 + 4/hp 

Gray Ooze: AC 8, MV 1", HD 3 + 3, hp 16, 
#AT 1, D 2-16, SA corrodes all but wood 
and stone, SD immune to heat, cold, all 


spells except lightning; AL N, SZ M, XP 
200 + 5/hp 

Ogre: AC 4, MV 9", HD 4 + 1, hp 24, #AT 
1, D 5-10 (stone-set club, ld6 + 4); AL 
CE, SZ L (9" +), XP 90 + 5/hp 

Men-at-Arms (6): AC 4, MV 9", Level 0, hp 
4 each, #AT 1, D 1-8 (longsword), SA 3 
with javelins (D 1-6, ranges 2"/4'/6"), 3 
with light crossbows (D 2-5); AL NE, XP 
18 each 

Leader: AC 4, MV 9", Level 3 Fighter, hp 21, 
#AT 1, Dl-8 (longsword), SA 2 javelins (D 
1-6, ranges 2"/4"/6'), Strength 17 ( + 1 "to 
hit"/ + 1 damage); AL NE, XP 113 

ROOM KEY 

101. ARMORY 


This plain chamber is filled with wooden 
racks for various spears, pole arms, and 
smaller weapons. The walls have many 
pegs indicating where other weapons 
and shields once hung. All that remains 
now are broken weapons, sundered 
shields, and ruined coats of mail. Several 
skeletons, both human and gnoll, lie 
scattered here and there, as well as odd 
skulls and bones. Cobwebs hang in 
places; if any creatures have been here, 
visits are not frequent. 


A close examination of bones reveals teeth 
marks. Many bones are cracked, and the 
marrow chewed out. No treasure is here, 
nor anything else of value. 

102. ARMORY 

See area 101 for a general description. In the 
corner to the southwest, under several 
wooden shafts splintered and tossed aside, 
is a quiver of 17 usable arrows. 

103. PILLARED HALL 

One hundred pounds of pressure on the floor 
at a point five feet in from the entry triggers a 
delayed-action mechanism. The pressure 
point limit is shown by X marks on the map. 
One round after this is triggered, a heavy 
barred grate drops and seals the doorway. 

Two harpies roost atop the two central 
eastern pillars, having special niches cut 
into the eastern faces 34 feet above the floor. 
When the grate crashes down, the harpies 
start singing. After one round, they cease 


their song and fly around, attacking any 
creature that makes a hostile gesture. If 
sounds of fighting occur here, the occupants 
of area 104 arrive 1 round later, if there is no 
such turmoil, these creatures arrive five full 
rounds after the grate s noisy descent. 

Harpies(2): AC 7, MV6'/15", HD 3, hp 16, 
12, #AT 3, D 1-3/1-3/1-6, SA singing + 
charm; XP 193, 181 


This 70 "x 30" chamber appears deserted, 
it has probably served as a privy, for the 
place has a foul fecal odor and filth is 
scattered here and there on the floor. The 
columns which support the ceiling 40" 
overhead are thick, four or five feet in 
diameter. A few skulls and bones lie 
around the pillar bases. 


The secret door in the northern portion of 
the west wall cannot be opened from this 
area except by the use of appropriate magic. 

104. ROOM, 30' x 20' 

Six ghouls move from here into harpy hall 
(area 103) if any noise is heard therein, their 
speed determined by the nature of the 
sounds (as described above). These foul 
creatures dwell here in harmony with the 
harpies and other creatures to the north (in 
areas 105-107). The harpies are allowed the 
"fun" of killing charmed and other victims, 
and get their fair share of the morsels thus 
obtained. Most of the corpses are then taken 
by the ghouls for later feasting. 

Ghouls (6); AC 6, MV 9", HD 2, hp 15, 13, 
12, 10, 8, 6, #AT 3, D I-3/1-3/1-6, SA 
touch paralyzes; XP95, 91, 89, 85, 81, 77 


The door to the west of harpy hall leads 
to this place. No exits are apparent. The 
place reeks of carrion, and filth and 
bones litter the floor. Heaps of old cloth 
along the walls indicate where the occu 
pants of the place once nested. Old gar 
ments hang from pegs in the wall. 


A thorough search reveals 187 cp, 81 sp, 5 
ep, and 61 gp under the bedding. A suit of 
elf-sized elfin chainmail hangs under an old 
cloak on the south wall. (Elven chain may 
be sold for up to 500 gp, varying by the 
place and time of sale. It is not normally 
available for purchase in shops, being 
highly sought and often reserved for elves, 


45 








nobles, well-known leaders, and political 
officials.) 

105. ROOM, 30' x 30' 

Four ghouls lair herein, and ignore all noises 
in area 103, assuming that their associates 
will handle whatever occurs. These ghouls 
attack any humans or demi-humans not 
clad in Temple robes. 

Ghouls (4): AC 6, MV 9", HD 2, hp 14, 13, 
10, 9, #AT 3, D 1-3/1-3/1-6, SA touch 
paralyzes; XP 93, 91, 85, 83 


This place is another room abandoned to 
new tenants. The noisome place is lit 
tered with rags and bones. A broken 
chest stands in the northwest corner. A 
door to the west is in the west wall near 
the south corner. 


The chest contains old clothing-bits and 
pieces of brown and tan garments. Under 
them are 108 cp, 92 sp, 37 gp, and 7 pp. 

106. ROOM, 10' x 20' 


This inner room was evidently the ante 
chamber of some minor functionary, for 
its walls are plastered and covered with 
obscene painting. The remains of uphol 
stered furnishings-a couch and four 
chairs-are still in the room. Some old 
and battered pewter dishes are heaped 
upon a small table. Normal doors are 
placed in the south and east walls. 


The only items of any value here are the 
four "pewter" (actually tarnished silver) 
plates, each worth 30 gp. 

107. ROOM, 20' x 20' 

Two ghasts have chosen this spot as their 
lair. From it, they direct the ghouls and have 
grown accustomed to leading an easy exist 
ence. If wounded and hard-pressed, the pair 
tries to escape via the secret door in the east 
wall, heading to area 115 for safety. The 
secret exit works by raising a wall sconce, 
which causes a five-foot-wide wall section 
to pivot. This cannot be worked except 
from inside the ghast's chamber (i. e. being a 
one-way secret door). 

Ghasts (2): AC 4, MV 15", HD 4, hp 23, 20, 
#AT 3, D1-4/1-4/1-8, SA touch paralyzes, 



stench 10 radius = save vs. poison or suf 
fer -2 "to hit" penalty; XP 282, 270 


From the look of this chamber, it was 
once the sanctuary of some lesser priest 
of the Temple. The walls are plastered 
and painted with scenes of evil nature, 
featuring the earth principle. The rotting 
remains of a large bed, two couches, and 
several carved chairs, now broken, tes 
tify that the room was once a comfort 
able place. 

The whole room reeks horribly. Bones 
are tossed here and there, and a partially 
eaten ore carcass lies on the floor near 
the south wall. No exits are visible, save 
the normal door to the north. 


If the bed is moved, a section of stonework 
with plaster missing is noteworthy. Behind a 
loose block is a large gold cup (worth 450 
gp) which contains 112 gp and 3 onyx gems 
(each worth 50 gp). 

108. GARBAGE ROOM 


The former use of this area cannot be 
determined, but it is now filled with 
trash, waste, bones, and the like. It is 
very odoriferous. Nothing of value is 
apparent, nor are any exits. 


If the party persists in disturbing the trash, 
they arouse the 20 giants rats, which attack 
hungrily. If more than ten of the rats are 
slain, the rest probably retreat (50% 
chance, check each round). 

Rats, giant (20): AC 7, MV 12"//6", HD 
1/2, hp 3 each, #AT 1, D 1-3; XP 10 each 

109. FRESCOED CORRIDOR 


This passage is evidently one of impor 
tance, for it is plastered and painted with 
the evil scenes typical of the Temple. 


The east-west 10' wide passage leading to 
this area slopes gradually downward to it. 
This 20 wide corridor in turn gently 
descends towards Dungeon Level Two. 
These gradients are such that only dwarves 
or gnomes easily notice them (75% and 
80% chance, respectively). Others do not 
do so unless the group is spread out over 
more than 40 feet, in which case a 10% 
chance exists per ten feet of spread length. 



If the wide corridor is taken, refer to area 

201 . 

109a. STAIRWAY 

The corridor ends in a stairway which diag 
onals upward, leading to a vestry in the 
upper temple (area 4 to the east, or area 5 to 
the west). 

110. STORAGE CHAMBER 


This chamber is obviously no longer in 
use, for it contains sacks of moldering 
grain, barrels of rotting flour, and heaps 
of broken containers and spilled contents 
in a jumbled mess. 


Nothing of any use or value remains here. 

111. STORAGE CHAMBER 


From the stale reek in this room, you can 
determine that much beer, wine, and ale 
was poured out here. The floor is cov 
ered with a dark residue, and broken 
tuns, barrels, casks, and kegs are strewn 
everywhere. 


Careful inspection reveals one small barrel 
with contents intact. It is vinegary wine, 
however, now so bad that anyone sampling 
it loses 1-4 points of strength for 2-12 turns, 
due to nausea. 

112. ARMORY 

Refer to area 101 for a general description. 
Anything of value seems to have been 
smashed or removed. A usable mace 
remains, but is found only if a full turn is 
spent searching the place. 

113. ARMORY 

Refer to area 101 for a general description. 
This place has been thoroughly vandalized. 
On a small ledge of one of the supporting 
arches, ten feet above the floor, lies a cross 
bow bolt + 3. A detect magic spell easily 
reveals its location, but without this 
dweomer, even a thorough search provides 
only a 5% chance of finding it. However, if 
any character manages to reach a height of 
more than nine feet above the chamber 
floor, its discovery is 75% likely. 


46 













114. SECURED DOOR 


The closures of this portal indicate that it is 
used with relative frequency. A door lock 
and padlock are present, the latter securing 
a chain. Unless the locks can be picked, 
only force can remove the obstacle. 


The door breaks only after 50 points of 
damage are applied. Attackers may make 
two hits per round; consider the door as 
Large size. The noise of such an attack 
draws all the occupants from area 115 in the 
next round. 

This dark, filthy chamber is the prison in 
which captives are held, for eventual sacrifice 
at the Earth Temple (area 145) or for feasting 
of ghouls and ghasts (areas 115-118). Eleven 
human prisoners are currently here; all are 
naked, and the males are chained to the wall. 
All are from the Nulb area. 

The two females are the wife and servant 
of a merchant. The males are as follows: 

2 merchants (XP 13 each) 

3 servants (XP 12 each) 

1 river sailor (Level 0, hp 6, XP 16) 

4 men-at-arms (Level 0, hp 4 each, 
XP 14 each) 

The prisoners have nothing of value, and 
know nothing of the Temple. They tell of 
being captured by raiding ghouls, except for 
the sailor, who was brought here by Dick 
Rentsch and his men as punishment for 
making a pass at Dala. The merchants, 
wife, and servants can offer no ransom, and 
if freed ask only to be shown how to get out 
and away, quickly. The sailor and men-at- 
arms will most certainly serve with loyalty, 
if supplied with clothing, armor and arms. 
If treated fairly and paid normally, they 
remain 100% loyal while in the employ of 
their liberators. 

115. ROOM, 20' x 30' 

Six ghouls dwell in this area. They pass 
through the eastern door to investigate any 
noise coming from the corridor, as noted in 
area 114. If intruders are discovered, five 
attack while one hastens to alert those in 
area 116. 

Ghouls (6); AC 6, MV9", HD 2, hp 13, 12, 
11, 10, 9, 8, #AT 3, D 1-3/1-3/1-6, SA 
touch paralyzes; XP91, 89, 87, 85, 83, 81 



The south wall of this chamber bears a 
bas relief of a hideous head-a human 
like face with squashed features, the face 
low upon a mushroom-shaped cranium. 
Various humanoids, monsters, and 
demoniac creatures prance and jape in 
the background. The remains of a sand 
stone altar lie in fragments before this 
sculpture. All furnishings are gone, but 
six heaps of old clothing, rags and what 
not remain, indicating that something 
yet dwells herein. A wooden box is near 
the north door. The west door has a peep 
hole, usable from inside the room. 


The box contains an old cloak of no value, 
263 cp, and a 6 inch tall finely carved ivory 
statuette (worth 85gp). 

These creatures, like their fellows in areas 
free run of this sector of the Temples upper 
dungeon to serve as a first line of defense. (It is 
also hoped that a sufficient force of ghouls and 
ghasts can be built to be later formed into a 
contingent of the Temple hordes when they re- 
emerge to war upon the forces of Good.) 

116. ROOM, 30' x 20' 

Six ghouls residing herein move to aid their 
fellows as needed. If necessary, one goes to 
room 117 to summon more aid, while the 
other five attack enemies, if intruders 
approach from the north, the one alerts 
those in area 115, of course, while the others 
aid their masters. 

Ghouls (6); AC 6, MV 9", HD 2, hp 14, 10, 
9, 8, 7, 7, #AT 3, D 1-3/1-3/1-6, SA 
touch paralyzes; XP93, 85, 83, 81, 79, 79 


The stench of ghouls lies heavily here, as 
well. Parts of rotting tapestries still adorn 
the east and west walls. A battered table 
and two stools occupy the center of the 
room. Mounds of cloth line the walls, 
apparently beds for the occupants. A 
water barrel is near the south door, and a 
full sack rests near the north door. 


The water barrel is placed over a hole in the 
floor, wherein 192 sp and 47 ep are kept. 
The sack contains the clothing taken from 
the current captives (in area 114) and three 
others as well, now deceased. However, no 
weapons are here. 



117. ROOM, 20' x 20' 

Two ghasts live in this room. They tend to 
flee from a lost cause or join a winning fight, 
as they perceive the situation. When fleeing, 
they head for area 107 (via areas 103-106). 

Ghasts (2): AC 4, MV 15", HD 4, hp 19, 16, 
#AT3, Dl-4/1-4/1-8, SA touch paralyzes, 
stench 10" radius = save vs. poison or suf 
fer -2 "to hit" penalty; XP 266, 254 


A ten-foot alcove is in the northeast cor 
ner of the room, its walls were once plas 
tered and painted, but where the 
covering still remains, some sort of mold 
or similar growth has discolored it suffi 
ciently to make the colors and subject 
matter undistinguishable. Bones are 
heaped in a pile in the alcove, and a dis 
gusting odor lingers about the place. 
Torn cloth and old cushions are piled to 
form two tangled nests of bedding near 
the south door. A large iron-bound chest 
with a heavy padlock stands in the 
southeast corner. 


The chest is not trapped, but is padlocked (as 
described). It contains 611 sp, a brooch with a 
carnelian stone with a cameo coat of arms 
(Veluna, quartered by the Knights of the Hart) 
worth 800 gp, and a scroll of protection from 
undead in a silver tube worth 35 gp. 

118. HALL, 10' x 30' 

The two ghasts dwelling herein are the lead 
ers of this complex and the one to the south 
east (areas 113-117). They are large and 
lazy, and bully the weaker ghasts and 
ghouls, getting the best of the food and loot. 
The larger of this pair gains a + 1 bonus to 
all "to hit" and damage rolls; it wears a gold 
chain. Neither ghast retreats as do the oth 
ers. Unless forced away by a cleric or magic, 
both stay and fight to the death; they love 
their life of ease and know that it is lost if 
they show weakness. 

Ghasts (2): AC 4, MV 15", HD 4, hp 29, 24, 
#AT3, Dl-4/1-4/1-8, SA touch paralyzes, 
stench 10 radius = save vs. poison or suf 
fer -2 "to hit" penalty; XP 306, 286 


This area is plastered and wainscoated in 
some (now ruined) wood, it was evi 
dently some form of trophy or museum 


47 










room, and several broken cases are shoved 
against the walls. A serviceable but moldy 
shield hangs on the west wall. Two great 
heaps of old cloth and pillows and like 
materials are formed to serve as beds. 


The larger ghast wears a gold chain worth 
7,000 gp, set with three small rubies worth 
1,000 gp each. The smaller has a ruby ring 
(worth 4,000 gp) so encrusted with dirt and 
filth that it goes unnoticed unless the mon 
ster's left hand is carefully and specifically 
examined. 

The shield on the west wall is a shield + 1, 
long forgotten by the remaining Temple 
authorities. The only other treasure is worn 
by the room's inhabitants. 

119. BANQUET HALL 


This huge place is over 100 1 long and 30 ' 
wide in the main portion. The litter of 
tables, trestles, benches, chairs, and 
stools scattered and heaped about the 
place show that great revelries of Evil 
were one conducted here. Bits of tapes 
tries and drapes still hang here and there 
from the walls. Bones and whole skele 
tons can be seen on the floor and under 
the heaped broken furniture. A skirmish 
in the greater battle for the Temple was 
surely fought in this place! 


A careful search reveals one usable shield 
and weapon each turn, to a maximum of 
four of each. Roll ld4 to determine what 
weapon is discovered: 1 = longsword, 2 = 
shortsword, 3 = battle axe, 4 = spear. 
Nothing else here is of value, unless kindling 
wood is desired.... 

120. KITCHEN 


This place is 20 x 30', with three doors 
in the southern portion - east, south in 
the west corner, and west, A high, broad 
fireplace with numerous side ovens dom 
inates the north wall. The fireplace is 
large enough to roast a whole ox. The 
room is littered with broken containers 
and dishes, trash of an unidentifiable 
sort, and pieces of wooden tables, 
counter tops, and the like. Several skele 
tons are visible, including one which 
appears to be that of an ogre. 


Within the darkest recesses of the unused 




fireplace dwells a giant poisonous snake. It 
is coiled and may strike by surprise (50% 
chance). It has not eaten for a long time, and 
is very hungry, it can strike to 8 foot range, 
half its length, and attacks any creature 
coming within that range. 

Snake: AC 5, MV 15", HD 4 + 2, hp 21, #AT 
1, Dl-3 + poison, SA bite = save vs. poi 
son; take 3d6 damage if made, die if failed; 
attack range = 8' 1/2 length); XP 495 

Near the ogre skeleton is a usable 
shortsword (its "dagger") and a leather sack 
containing 84 gp. These are hidden under a 
small pile of nondescript debris. 

The ten-foot-square rooms were used for 
crockery storage and food storage, respec 
tively for the south and west areas. Their 
contents are broken and smashed; food 
stuffs are spoiled. 

121. ROOM, 20' x 20' 

Four gnolls remain here as sentries. One is 
posted at the spy hole at all times, while the 
other three take their ease, if any intruder is 
seen, two join the watcher at the door to 
ambush anyone entering, while one alerts 
those in area 122. if all party members are 
wearing the brown robes of the Earth Temple, 
the gnolls do not attack. They behave simi 
larly towards those wearing other robes, if 
they appear strong and do not attack first. The 
gnolls are smart enough to use water or dirt 
against fire. Each gnoll has 2-12 ep. 

Gnolls (4): AC 5, MV 9", HD 2, hp 10, 7, 7, 
6, #AT 1, D 2-8 (bastard sword), SA 
throwing axes (D 1-6/1-4, ranges l"/2"/ 
3"); XP 48, 42, 42, 40 


The bare stone walls of this place have 
only a peg or two here and there, and three 
brackets with unlit torches in them. The 
floor likewise is plain stone blocks. A rude 
wooden table is against the east wall, just 
south of the eastern door, with three stools 
nearby. A small keg full of water stands in 
the northwest corner, and next to it is a 
mound of ordinary looking dirt. The south 
door has a spy hole, openable only from 
inside the room. 


122. CHAMBER, 20' x 20' 

Four gnolls are on guard duty here. One 
watches each door, one checks the passage 


way, and the last watches the others, taking 
a position in the northwest corner. A thin 
rope hangs down in that corner, connected 
to a weighted rope net. If any enemies enter, 
the gnolls give way to the northwest corner 
and grab spears, appearing to be grouping 
for a stand; then the rope is jerked, and the 
net falls. 

The gnolls hurl their spears at entrapped 
opponents, grab oil from the shelf and add 
them to the fray, and then uncover a small 
fire box with smouldering punk. This bursts 
aflame when the box is opened, and the 
gnoll hurls it into the oil to ignite it. 

Though these gnolls have no orders to 
alert others, those in areas 121 and 123 
probably (90% chance, checked for each) 
respond to the sounds of battle. 

Gnolls (4): AC 5, MV 9", HD 2, hp 13, 11, 
9, 7, #AT 1, D 2-8 (morning star), SA 
thrown spears (D 1-6/1-8, ranges l"/2"/ 
3"), net trap; XP 54, 50, 46, 42 1 


The walls of this place are of plain stone. 
Doors to the north and west are normal. 
Four heaps of bedding - rags, torn tap 
estries, rugs, etc. -lie by the south wall. 
Two stools stand near the entrance to the 
southeast passage. Opposite this 
entrance, along the wall, is a crude shelf, 
supporting several samples of pottery - 
bottles and mugs. Under it, in the north 
west corner, stand four spears. 


if the gnolls herein have not already used 
them as weapons, five flasks of oil are on the 
shelf, by two mugs. Four bottles are empty, 
and one contains wine. The largest gnoll 
wears a silver chain with a roughly polished 
carnelian (worth 125 gp). Each gnoll carries 
1-4 sp, 1-4 ep, and 1-4 gp. 

123. ROOM WITH ALCOVE 

Five gnolls dwell here with two renegade 
hobgoblins. The latter are meaner and more 
bloodthirsty than the gnolls! The gnolls are 
"off duty" members of a reforming com 
pany which the Earth Temple hopes to field. 
(See also 124 and 126-128.) If they hear 
sounds of fighting, 1-4 of these inhabitants 
probably (90% chance) go to investigate 
and join in the fun. The secret door, a pivot 
ing wall section which is also concealed - 
hidden by a tattered carpet - is only used in 
dire emergencies; the ogres of area 124 are 
greatly feared. 


48 








50, 48, 46, 44, 42 



Gnolls (5): AC 5, MV 9", HD 2, hp 11, 9, 9, 
8, 7, #AT 1, D 2-8 (morning star), SA 
throwing axes (D 1-6, ranges l"/2"/3"); 
XP 50, 46, 46, 44, 42 

Hobgoblins (2): AC 5, MV 9", HD 1 + I, hp 
8, 6, #AT 1, D 1-8 (longsword), SA long 
composite bows with 15 arrows each (D 
1-6); XP 36, 32 


Carpets and tapestries cover the plain 
stone walls of this room, and a few rugs are 
on the floor as well. From the appearance 
of all this, the room was once the quarters 
of some fairly important person - an 
underpriest of the Earth Temple, from the 
scenes depicted on several tapestries. 
Whatever furniture was once here is now 
gone. Heaps of cloth lie near the walls, 
showing where the inhabitants sleep. A 
small brazier stands in the northeast cor 
ner. A small keg of cheap beer is in the cen 
ter of the room. The only exit is the door in 
the south wall of the alcove. 


Each of the seven humanoids herein has 1-4 
sp, 1-4 ep, and 1-4 gp. Under the dead coals 
of the brazier are 27 pp. 

124. ROOM, 20' x 20' 

The two ogres here are in charge of the 
gnolls and hobgoblins to the southwest. 
Each wears a brown leather jack, set with 
thin bronze plates (giving AC 4). Unless 
they are summoned, they ignore sounds 
from areas 121-123, concentrating their 
attention on possible victims in area 125. 
However, their chief is in area 126, and they 
investigate unusual noises from that place. 

Ogres (2): AC 4, MV 9", HD 4 +1, hp 22, 
20, #AT 1, D 5-10 (stone-set club, 
ld6 + 4); XP 200, 190 


This place is plastered and the floor paved 
with polished brown granite slabs. It is 
now dirty and cluttered, but must once 
have been a plush guest chamber. Many 
cushions and pillows are piled so as to 
make beds in the northeast and northwest 
corners of the room. A half -empty wine 
barrel and a like container with a few 
salted fish stand along the south wall. 
Another barrel there holds seven long 
spears. Pegs on the wall hold one shortbow 
and three quivers, each containing 20 
arrows. Beside the barrels is a chest. 



Each ogre has a belt pouch containing 5-30 sp 
and 5-30 gp. The wine barrel contains sour, 
thin wine. The chest is unlocked, and holds 2 
maces, 5 hand axes, 1 battle axe, 6 morning 
stars, 2 shortswords, and 1 broadsword. 

The stone slab under the spear barrel is 
loose and can be lifted by anyone with 18 
Strength, or two persons with a combined 
Strength of 30. Underneath is a cavity with 
870 sp and a silver bracelet (170 gp) adorned 
with six azurites worth 10 gp each. 

125. CORRIDOR OF BONES 


For at least 100 feet of its length, this 20 
wide corridor is covered with bones. 
Skeletons of humans and humanoids are 
mixed in a terrible jumble. Many skulls 
and loose bones seem gnawed. The com 
plete skeletons, though, still wear sun 
dered armor, dented caps, or sprawl by 
broken shields. Bent and broken weap 
ons likewise testify to a great melee hav 
ing taken place here; a hundred, two, 
perhaps more... all met death here. Fur 
ther progress along the corridor requires 
carefully picking a path between these 
grim remains of the Temple hordes. 
Nothing of value is discernable. 


If the party enters the corridor area shaded 
on the map, they spring a trap. When they 
get to the central area (just south of the 
secret door to area 131), the following 
events occur: 

a. Ten human skeletons spring up from 
the west end of the shaded area, charging 
east to the attack; 

b. Six gnoll skeletons spring up at the east 
end of the shaded area, moving west to 
surround the intruders. 

In addition, the two ogres (area 124) watch 
ing for trouble join the fray if the intruders 
(PCs) are nearly slain, or if the party 
retreats into the southern 20' wide corridor 
leading to their door. If the latter, the ogres 
probably (75%) gain 1-4 surprise segments 
unless their door is being carefully watched. 

Skeletons, human (10): AC 7, MV 12", HD 
1, hp8, 6, 5, 5, 5, 5, 4, 4, 4, 3; #AT 1, D 
1-6; XP 22, 20, 19 (x4), 18 (x3), 17 

Skeletons, gnoll (6); AC 7, MV 9", HD 2, hp 
12, 11, 10, 9, 8, 7; #AT 1, D 2-7; XP 52, 



Ten man-turns of searching the corridor 
reveals the following intact items: 15 
arrows, 4 silver arrows, 5 morning stars, 3 
longswords, 2 shortswords, 3 shields, 1 ring 
mail, 2 chain mail, and 1 plate mail. 

126. ROOM, 20' x 20' 

Herein dwells an ogre, the chief of the entire 
ogre force. He reports to the clerics in area 
137 from time to time. If he hears a commo 
tion in the corridor or nearby rooms, he 
probably (90%) ignores it, trusting his flun 
kies to handle the minor matters. He 
responds to any direct call for help at his 
door, of course. 

Ogre leader: AC 3, MV 9", HD 4+1, hp 26, 
#AT 1, D 5-12 (ld8 + 4, with battle axe); 
XP 220 


This place appears to have been another 
visitors' chamber, but the plastered walls 
are broken and smoke-stained from the 
struggles of the past. Several couches 
have been shoved together to form a 
huge bed in the northeast corner. Several 
empty sacks lie on the floor, and a nearly 
full barrel of ale is near the west door. A 
large table and rude chair are in the 
northwest corner; a big, yellowish 
cheese and several hard sausages lie atop 
the table, beside an empty gallon jug. 
Under the table is an iron chest. Nine 
spears, 3 morning stars, and 2 long 
swords lie piled by the south door. 


The ogre wears a copper belt worth 35 gp, 
upon which hangs his purse, containing 11 
sp, 19 ep, and 38 gp. 

The iron chest is locked but not trapped, 
and contains 311 gp and 2 huge and remark 
ably perfect agates (worth 100 gp and 500 
gp, respectively). The lock can be picked or 
broken open by 30 points of damage. 

127. L-SHAPED ROOM 

Three gnolls are quartered here. They are 
reasonably alert, and if called rush to help, 
hurrying more to serve the ogre (area 126), 
of course, than for their fellows with the 
bugbear (area 128). If opportunity presents, 
the one gnoll armed with a bow uses it until 
opponents close. Each gnoll has 1-4 sp, 1-4 
ep, and 1-4 gp. 


49 







Gnolls (3): AC 5, MV 9", HD 2, hp 13, 12, 
8, #AT 1, D 2-8 (bastard sword), SA 1 
has long composite bow and 20 arrows 
(D 1-6); XP 54, 52, 44 


The fireplace on the west wall of this 
room shows that special folk were 
housed here. Three battered old chairs 
are still in place, by a broken bed of large 
size. A wooden box stands near the bed, 
with a small keg nearby. Several old 
cloaks hang from wall hooks. 


128. ROOM, 20' x 30' 

Seven gnolls are in the room, one by each 
door and one deep in the alcove with a 
heavy quadruple crossbow (see area 128a). 
They live here with a bugbear who is a 
rogue, liking the gnolls and ogres better 
than its own kind. In case of attack, these 
residents alert those in area 127 (or even the 
guards in area 129, as applicable). 

The alcove is five feet wide and six feet long, 
and houses the once gnoll sentry manning the 
special crossbow. A peep hole gives a good 
view of the corridor south (see area 128a). 

Gnolls (7): AC 5, MV 9", HD 2, hp 13, 10, 
9, 9, 8, 8, 8, 6, #AT 1, D 1-8 (battle axe), 
SA crossbow trap (see area 128a); XP 54, 
48, 46 (x2), 44 (x3), 40 

Bugbear (1): AC 5, MV 9", HD 3 + 1, hp 14, 
#AT 1, D 2-8 (bastard sword), SA can 
throw battle (ranges l"/2"/4", D 3-10), 
XP 191 


Perhaps this was once a reception room 
or minor council chamber. Bits of wall 
coverings still dangle here and there, and 
a once fine hardwood sideboard is cen 
tered along the north wall. Atop it are 
various dirty dishes, a cask of beer, and 
bits of stale bread and dried meat. The 
entire length of the west wall is lined with 
piles of bedding, divided into eight pal 
lets. A small wall font still trickles a sul 
phurous smelling water into a stone 
basin in the northwest corner. A stack of 
wood lies by the south door, possibly for 
use in some nearby fireplace. A five- 
foot- wide alcove can be seen in the east 
wall, near the northeast corner. 


Each gnoll has 3-18 cp. The bugbear carries 
a pouch containing 1-4 of each coin type 
(cp, sp, ep, gp, pp), and also wears a gold 


chain with 12 large coins upon it (130 gp for 
the whole). 

A hollow log at the bottom of the stack of 
wood conceals the bugbear s private stash of 
60 sp, 28 ep, and 47 gp. 

128a. SENTRY 

The large and heavy quadruple crossbow 
mounted here is manned by one gnoll (hp 
6), who can easily watch the 10' wide 
north-south corridor through a peep hole. 
Any intruder in the passage is subject to 
four shots at once, each inflicting 1-8 points 
of damage. Make "to hit" rolls with a + 5 
bonus, i. e. 9 or better to hit AC 2 when fired 
by the gnoll sentry. As the crossbow cannot 
be reloaded and wound in less than two full 
rounds, it is unlikely that it can fire twice in 
a melee. (Use your judgment as to the sen 
try's actions, which should definitely 
include warning its companions.) 

The crossbow is not easily moved (encum 
brance 400 gp) but can be dismantled for tra 
vel. It can be sold for a base value of 50 gp. 

129. GUARDROOM 

Five guards are alert here at all times. One fac 
ing the door, and another posted ten feet up 
the northeast corridor (position G on the 
map), are armed with heavy crossbows and 
longswords. Each of the others has a javelin, 
to be hurled before closing to melee. Each 
guard wears chain mail armor with a brown 
surcoat; each carries a shield covered in brown 
leather and bearing a black triangular boss. 
This triangle device is also sewn to their sur- 
coats. In any disturbance, the guards alert 
area 130 (or 128, as appropriate). Each guard 
carries 2-8 cp, 2-8 sp, and 2-8 ep. 

Guards (5): AC 4, MV 9", Level 0, hp 7, 6, 
5, 5, 5, #AT 1, D 1-8 (longsword) or 2-5 
(crossbow bolt); SA javelins (D 1-6, 
ranges 2 "/4"/6"); XP 21, 20, 19 (x3) 


This 20' square room was obviously a 
guard room. Racks for weapons still 
remain on the eastern wall. A table with 
4 chairs takes up the northwest corner. A 
water barrel, nearly full, stands beside 
the west door, with a bundle of ten 
torches beside it. A single torch burns on 
the south wall. Two candles light the 
table. Some rectangular bone markers 
are on the table, by a jug and several 


ceramic mugs. Several pegs and hooks 
on the south wall hold old brown cloaks, 
a leather bag, and a shortbow with a 
quiver of five arrows. 


The bone markers are dominoes, worth 5 gp 
for the set. The jug holds watered wine, and 
the leather bag is filled with hard biscuits 
and dried apples. 

130. ROOM WITH TRAPEZOIDAL 
ANNEX 

Seven zero-level guards are barracked in the 
20' square area, ready to fight whenever 
necessary. These men-at-arms are the core 
of the new company of Elemental Earth 
Reavers. Each carries a javelin, to be hurled 
before closing for melee. They, along with 
their fellows in area 129, always do their 
best to protect area 133 - but if it becomes 
obvious that they are losing a fight, they 
might flee (25% chance, check each round). 

Four fighters are quartered in the trapezoi 
dal area; they are the leaders of the company. 
Each is clad in bronzed plate mail and carries 
the brown shield with black triangular boss. 
They take orders from the cleric in area 137. 

Each fighter carries two javelins for use 
before melee, and their leader (Level 4) car 
ries a javelin of lightning for use in an emer 
gency. (The ogres, for example, know of this 
and obey accordingly.) Each has average 
Strength except for the L3 leader, who has a 
17 ( + 1 to hit/ + 1 damage). 

Guards (7): AC 4, MV 9", Level 0, hp 7, 5, 
5, 4, 4, 4, 3; #AT 1, D 1-8 (longsword), 
SA 1 javelin each (D 1-6, ranges 2"/4"/ 
6"); XP 21, 19 (x2), 18 (x3), 17 

Fighters (4): AC 2, MV 6", Levels 4, 3, 2, 2, 
hp 30, 19, 13, 12, #AT 1, D 1-8 (long 
sword), SA 2 javelins each (D 1-6, ranges 
2 "/4 "/6 "). L4 Fighter has javelin oflight- 
ning + 2 (ranges 3"/6"/9", D 1-6 + 20 
electricity in 5'x 30' bolt); L3 Fighter 
gains + 1 "to hit" and damage; XP 205, 
107, 54, 52 


The former purpose of this room cannot 
be ascertained, but the four bunks in the 
south end obviously show that it now 
houses troops of some sort. Pegs on the 
wall are many, and one holds a brown 
cape. A bench is near the door to the 
west. Two torches give light to the area. 









A trapezoidal area through the arch 
way to the north contains four narrow 
cots, four small wooden chests, and a 
small wall fountain which dribbles 
smelly water into its basin. A long table 
with two benches and a chair at head and 
foot complete the furnishings. Light 
comes from a lantern, held aloft above 
the table by a thin chain; two unlit 
torches are mounted on the walls. An 
open cupboard by the table holds vari 
ous dishes and four jugs. 


Each guard has 2-8 cp, 2-8 sp, and 2-8 ep. 
Each fighter wears a bronze ring with a tri 
angular setting of jet (worth 50 gp). These 
rings are passes to any area of this dungeon 
level not commanded by a cleric (though 
undead tend to ignore such niceties...). Each 
fighter carries various coins (ep, gp, and 
pp), the number of each determined by roll 
ing 2d6 per level of experience (the L4 leader 
thus carrying 8-48 of each coin type). 

The water in the fountain is smelly but 
drinkable. The jugs in the cupboard hold 
water, wine, beer, and fuel oil (three pints 
worth 1 gp each), respectively. Each chest 
contains nondescript items of clothing and 
one leather ceremonial harness with a large, 
bronze-hilted dagger (worth 15 gp with the 
harness). One chest also contains a scrap of 
parchment, inscribed with a message, in 
Common: "Remember to check AUGURY 
CHAMBER to see if Belstro was lying!" 

131. SECRET DOOR 

The shaft which descends from the Temple to 
Dungeon Level Two has a means of entrance 
and egress at this point. The portal is but two 
feet wide and four feet high, opening by 
downward pressure (which causes it to sink); 
it closes automatically one round later. The 
area beyond has a narrow ledge, which con 
tinues to spiral towards the level below. 

132. HEXAGONAL ROOM 


A partially destroyed stone chair domi 
nates this place. It is hewn of brown mar 
ble, veined with black, and stands near 
the middle of the north wall. Both arms 
have been broken off, and the seat is 
chipped. A piece is missing from the 
back, and the whole is fractured. Rubble 
and broken furniture are strewn about 



the room. The ceiling overhead is at least 
35' high-possibly more, lost in the 
shadows of the supporting arches. The 
stench of rotting flesh faintly lingers 
throughout the area. 


Eighteen stirges lurk in the ceiling vault, 
nesting in the nooks and crannies of the sup 
porting arches and buttresses and 90% 
undetectable until their attack. They thus 
have a 50% chance of surprise unless some 
one does notice them, or unless an overhead 
lookout is maintained. In any event, 
intruders are attacked within three rounds 
of entering the room. When half the stirges 
are slain, the remainder retire to their ceiling 
nests, where ten young remain (which are 
one week from maturity). 

Stirges (18): AC 8, MV 3718", HD 1 + 1, 
hp 6, 5, or 4 (equal numbers of each), 
#AT 1, D 1-3, SA attack as if 4 HD, 
blood drain after hit (D 1-4 per round); 
XP 48 (x6), 46 (x6), 44 (x6) 

Close examination of the area reveals bones 
and 1-4 cp per searcher each round (to a 
maximum of 40 cp in all). If the floor is care 
fully searched, a ring ofshooting stars may 
be found; allow a 5% chance of success per 
searcher per round (or 100% if a detect 
magic spell is employed). This item 
belonged to one of the victims of the stirges, 
which availed not in this place. 

The secret door is counterbalanced to 
swing inward at the bottom when a wall 
stone is pulled to the right. 

133. ANTEROOM 

Four guards are stationed here at all times. 
One has a short bow, his shield being set 
nearby ready for use if melee occurs. Each 
of the others has a javelin ready to hurl 
before closing with opponents. Each wears 
chain mail armor, a brown surcoat with a 
black triangle sewn upon it, and a shield 
covered in brown leather, whose boss is also 
a triangular metal device. If attacked, the 
guards defend their position while alerting 
those in area 134 by yanking on a wire 
alarm (see descriptional). 

Guards (4): AC 4, MV 9", Level 0, hp 5, 5, 
4, 4, #AT 1, D 1-8 (longsword), SA 3 
with javelin (D 1-6, ranges 2"/4"/6"), 1 
with shortbow (#AT 2, Dl-6); XP 19, 19, 
18, 18 



This 10 x 20' hall is lit by two torches, and 
contains a bench, and a stool. The walls 
are plastered. Several pegs and hooks have 
been recently added, from the look of 
them, and support a brown cloak, a quiver 
with 9 arrows, and a hand axe. Several eye 
bolts are mounted horizontally along the 
west wall; a wire runs through them and 
into the north wall. 


Each guard carries 1-8 sp and 1-6 gp. 

134. INNER CHAMBER 

The south door opens inward and to the 
west. Eight guards are quartered here to 
protect the areas northward. Though at 
rest, they can be ready to fight in a single 
round. Four of the guards are armed with 
light crossbows. For combat, two of these 
go to the west corners of the room to cover 
the door, using bunks as partial cover. (The 
one in the northwest corner is a half-ore.) 
The other pair retires behind a stout mantlet 
(blocking the entrance into area 135, as 
shown on the map), kneeling with cross 
bows at ready. The mantlet has two 
crosslets at waist height for this tactic, and 
can also provide chest-high protection for 
two others if spears or pole arms are used. 

While the crossbowmen take their posi 
tions, 2 swordsmen move to the door to 
open it, while the remaining two swords 
men step behind the mantlet and take up 
glaives (which are kept along the west wall 
just inside of area 135), preparing to defend. 

Note that combat brings other guards from 
area 135, but only after five rounds pass, as 
they must first don armor and take up arms. 

Guards (8): AC 4, MV 9", Level 0, hp 7, 6, 
6 , 5 (swordsmen), 5, 4, 4, 3, (crossbow 
men), #AT 1, D 1-8 (longsword) or 1-6 
(glaive, 9' length), SA4 have light cross 
bows (D 2-5); XP 17, 16, 16, 15 (swords 
men), 19, 18, 18, 17 (crossbowmen) 

if more than half of the guards are killed, the 
half-ore crossbowman in the northwest cor 
ner (a creature of surly mien) tries to surren 
der, for he hates his commander (who 
tortures and kills ores for sport). 


This 20' square plastered room is lit by 
two torches and a lantern, the latter fixed 
to shine upon the south door. The room 
has been converted into a barracks, as 


51 









can be seen from the four double bunks to 
each side. A mantlet stands between this 
room and that to the north, giving solid 
protection to the defenders. Several brown 
cloaks hang from pegs driven through the 
plaster into wall cracks. A jug and several 
cups are on the table. Eight small chests are 
shoved under the bunks. 


The half-ore has 1-4 cp and 1-4 sp. Each of 
the other guards has 1-6 ep and 1-6 gp. The 
jug is half filled with watered wine. Each 
chest holds only worthless clothing, har 
ness, etc. 

135. LOUNGE 

Eight guards are off-duty here. Action in 
area 134 or 136 alerts them, but they do not 
participate until they have donned their 
armor and taken up their arms (requiring 
five full rounds). Each has two javelins to 
hurl before closing to melee; each is dressed 
as those in 134 and elsewhere. 

In desperate straits, the guards use flam 
ing oil missiles, taking empty bottles from a 
cabinet on the east wall, filling them with 
fuel oil from a cask by the north door, and 
stoppering them with rags. If truly imper 
iled, they roll the whole cask of oil to a point 
near intruders, smash the end closest to 
their foes (creating an oil spill), and ignite it. 

Combat in this area alerts the fighters in 
area 136, but these reinforcements will 
ignore more distant noises (such as skir 
mishing in area 134). 

Guards (8): AC 4, MV 9", Level 0, hp 6, 5, 
5, 5, 5, 4, 4, 4, #AT 1, D 1-8 (longsword), 
SA 2 javelins each (D 1-6, ranges 2 "/4"/ 
6 "); XP20, 19 (x4), 18 (x3) 


Four walls cressets send smoky light 
through this room. The place is plas 
tered, the floor covered with mosaic 
tiles. The paintings on the walls display 
scenes indicating that this room was 
meant for drinking and debauching 
(though whether for the clerics of the 
Temple or its guests remains uncertain). 
Eight double bunks are here. A long and 
well-made table in the middle of the 
room is flanked by long benches, plus a 
chair at each end. Cloaks on pegs are 
apparent, as are chests under the bunks. 
Three barrels stand just inside the south 
door, two containing liquids and the 


other some lumpy objects. Several large 
smoked sausages hang from a rope 
tossed over a ceiling truss. A small cabi 
net between the bunks on the east wall 
holds dishes. 


If not used in defense, a cask containing 
seven gallons of fuel oil also stands near the 
north door, and three empty bottles accom 
pany the dishes in the cabinet. Fuel oil can 
be sold for 1 ep per pint (16 gp per gallon). 

Of the barrels by the south door, one 
holds 50 gallons of water, the center one 
about 25 gallons of beer (worth 15 gp), and 
the third, hard biscuits. The chests under 
the bunks, similar to those in area 134, hold 
nothing ofvalue save a dozen torches and a 
pair of normal lanterns. Each guard carries 
1-4 cp, 1-4 sp, 1-4 ep, and 1-4 gp. 

136. INNER CHAMBER 

The fifth level commander of this group and 
his third level lieutenant dwell here. They 
directly serve the priest of the Earth Temple. 
They hope to soon recruit sufficient forces 
to completely control this dungeon level, 
and plan to extend their sway lower. Any 
previous losses of troops, human or human 
oid, will have resulted in threats of dire con 
sequences from their priest, with the result 
that they will fight fearlessly. 

If they move to investigate battle sounds, 
these leaders do not bother the clerics to the 
north (area 137) unless the danger is obvi 
ously extreme. 

Commander: AC 2, MV 6", Level 5 Fighter, 
hp 36, #AT 1, D 2-9 (battle axe +1); XP 
310 

Lieutenant: AC 2, MV 6", Level 3 Fighter, 
hp 29, #AT 1, D 1-8 (longsword), SA 
Strength 17 ( +1 "to hit", + 1 damage); 
XP 122 


Two cressets illuminate this room. The 
area was once lavishly decorated. Two 
plush couches, a wardrobe, a small table 
with inlaid wood top, and two padded 
armchairs still remain. A large chest 
stands near the couch, by the eastern 
wall. On the table are a few dented pew 
ter dishes and some food. An unlit can 
dle in a wooden candlestick stands atop 
the wardrobe. 



Each fighter wears a bronze ring, set with a 
triangular stone of jet (worth 50 gp). The 
commander wears a gold chain (worth 200 
gp) under his armor, and carries 10-60 gp 
and 10-60 pp. The lieutenant carries 6-36 gp 
and 6-36 pp. 

The food on the table consists of a partial 
loaf of stale bread, a sausage, some fruit, 
and a small piece of cheese. The wardrobe 
contains clothing only, none of it worth any 
notable value. The lock on the chest is 
secured, and takes 35 points of damage to 
demolish. The chest holds clothing of no 
value, a quart of excellent brandy, a coil of 
norma] rope (50'), and a potion ofhealing. 

137. SLEEPING APARTMENT 

In the north of this pair of rooms lives 
Romag, a curate (L4) and priest of the Earth 
Elemental Temple. He is determined to 
become the leading cleric of the Temple of 
Elemental Evil, and is gathering forces to 
accomplish this. He would particularly 
enjoy raiding and looting the Water Elemen 
tal Temple, and killing its priest. 

In the southern room of the pair, through 
a four-foot-wide concealed archway (cov 
ered by a tapestry), lives Hartch, an adept. 
He is ready to serve his master (Romag) and 
eager to pass on his commands. 

If alerted by their guards to the south or 
by noise in that direction, Hartsch observes 
through a peep hole in the door, and throws 
the large bar on the south door for defense. 
That portal may thereafter be destroyed 
only by 200 points of damage. 

If the fighting in this area gets too hot 
(assuming that it approaches from the south), 
Romag uses his darkness spell, slips into the 
concealed alcove to the northwest, gets his 
treasure from a large iron chest therein (see 
description below), and runs away. If he does 
so, he will be too ashamed to ever return - 
and his defeat would assure his death at the 
hands of other clerics anyway. 

If danger approaches from the north, 
Romag may (40% chance) hide in the alcove 
to the northeast after alerting Hartsch to 
summon the guards. He otherwise joins 
Hartsch in getting assistance, and com 
mands the battle from the rear. Note that 
the fighters and guards in areas 134-136 use 
an appropriate strategy, roughly the same as 
that described in the area descriptions but 
reversed in direction. Note also that the 
guards in area 133 maintain their post, not 
moving to aid the fight to the north. 


52 









Romag: AC 0, MV 12", Level 4 Cleric, hp 
24, #AT 1, D 2-7 (mace +1), SA spells, 
XP 321 

First level: command, cure light wounds, 
curse (to miss crucial attacks), darkness 
Second level: hold person, resist fire, silence 
15' radius 

Hartsch: AC 2, MV 9", Level 2 Cleric, hp 
13, #AT 1, Dl-6 (mace), SA spells, XP99 
First level: command, cure light wounds 
(x2), fear 

Romag wears chain mail + 2 and carries a 
mace +1; the effect of his 17 Dexterity is 
included in the AC given. He carries a purse 
containing 3 ep, 14 gp, 9 pp, and a jasper 
(worth 50 gp). Hartsch wears a gold ring 
(worth 25 gp) and a gold brooch set with a 
triangular piece of jet (worth 150 gp), and 
carries a purse containing 11 gp and 17 pp. 


The southern face of the door to this 
place is sheathed in bronze, and bears a 
peep hole. The bar on the inside is very 
thick. The door opens northward, 
swinging west. The walls herein are hung 
with tapestries and rugs, and the floor is 
covered with several layers of carpets. A 
pair of bronze lamps light the place, sus 
pended on chains from the ceiling. A 
brass brazier on a tripod makes the room 
both too warm and too stuffy from the 
smoke of incense. A divan, small table, 
two chairs, and a cupboard stand along 
the east wall. A large armoire with side 
drawers stands by the west wall. The 
table holds a silver flask, several ceramic 
dishes and cups, and some foodstuffs - 
fruit, shelled nuts, and sweetmeats. 


The 15 carpets and rugs strewn about the 
place have little value - about 3-18 sp each. 
The silver flask on the table is worth 40 gp, 
and holds good brandy. The wardrobe con 
tains several worthless garments, a pair of 
sandals and pair of boots, and a normal 
mace. The side drawers hold linens, towels, 
and the like. The lowest drawer on the left 
side holds incense and unguents worth 90 
gp, with one-half cubic foot of volume and 
30 gp encumbrance. 

One tapestry on the north wall conceals 
an archway, leading to Romag's room: 


Behind the large tapestry on the north 
wall is a four-foot-wide archway leading 




to a 10'x 20' alcove. Two hanging lamps 
illuminate the area. A pillow-strewn bed 
is here, as well as a small desk and pad 
ded chair, a brass stand with several 
staves in it, a low table, two stools, and a 
wardrobe. A fountain in the southeast 
corner trickles a stream of clean water 
into a wall basin. The walls and floors 
are draped and carpeted. 


The desk contains a bottle of normal ink 
(worth 1 ep), 6 quills (each worth 1 ep), and 
10 sheets of parchment (worth 4 gp each), 
but nothing of great value. The hanging 
lamps are worth 15 gp each. On the low 
table is a small tome (worth 50 gp to any evil 
spell user) detailing the sacrifice of humans 
to earth elementals. The wardrobe contains 
old clothing, a bag holding nine candles, 
and two bottles of very fine white wine 
(worth 2 gp each). The brass stand (worth 
10 gp) holds two walking staves, one quar- 
terstaff, and a bronzewood rod (which 
Romag uses as a swagger stick) worth 5 gp. 

The tapestries on the northern wall cover 
two narrow archways. The easternmost 
leads to a closet-like space where pegs hold 
Romag's ceremonial garb, including a 
brown velvet cassock upon which are 
embroidered triangles of gold thread with 
precious stones (8 jaspers and 28 hematites, 
with base values of 50 and 10 gp, respec 
tively) in the pattern illustrated. 



The western space contains an iron chest, 
the key lock of which is trapped with a poi 
son needle. The chest is chained to a ring set 
in the east wall. Inside are a bullseye lantern 
and tinderbox, two leather bags (containing 
183 ep and 240 gp, respectively), a gold box 
set with ivory (worth 350 gp), a potion of 
speed, and a scroll of two cleric spells (ani 
mate dead and prayer). 


138. LIBRARY 


This large chamber was once an exten 
sive library, as evidenced by the charred 
remains of books and litter of broken 
tables and chairs. Scraps of torn and 
burned scrolls are tossed here and there. 


A careful search reveals several remnants of 
works on the ethos of Chaotic Evil - 
double-dealing, self-advancement, treach 
ery, etc. The tenth such bit examined reveals 
the "sacred" earth triangle and mentions the 
"trial of earthy terrors awaiting the fool 
hardy"; this trial awaits "below/elsewhere. 11 
Nothing else of note is in the place. 

139. STOREROOM 


This area was evidently one where 
strange and potent stuffs were once kept. 
The place is a welter of smashed flasks, 
broken pottery vessels, glass shards, all 
amidst the scattered remains of the con 
tents of these containers - herbs, spices, 
chemicals, and other strange mixtures 
and substances now unidentifiable. Even 
the shelves and benches which held these 
things are now broken and strewn about. 
The wreckage is total. 


The last statement is true only to the casual 
observer. A careful search reveals one item 
of the following list after a full turn of sifting 
through the mass. One is located each 
round thereafter, but each may be "found" 
by stepping on and ruining it. (Have a 
player roll ld6 for each; 1-3 indicates ruin.) 
Items are singular, not duplicated; use ld8 
for random determination of each, but re 
roll duplicates. 

1. A bottle of dull red powder (phosphorus, 
worth 35 gp) 

2. A stoppered vial of sparkling red powder 
(ground ruby, worth 1,000 gp) 

3. A bag containing 1-4 amber rods (worth 
25 gp each) 

4. A small bottle of yellow powder (pure 
sulfur, worth 40 gp) 

5. A tin box filled with yellow powder (saf 
fron, worth 5 gp) 

6 . A tube of silvery fluid (quicksilver, 10 gp 
weight, worth 100 gp) 

7. A stoppered vial of sparkling black pow 
der (ground tourmaline, worth 500 gp) 

8 . A small flask of blackish red liquid (lion's 
blood, worth 10 gp) 


53 























140. MEDITATION ROOM 


This chamber is plastered and painted 
with disgusting scenes and adages. It was 
apparently used as a restful (?) place to 
which the clerics of the cult might retreat 
and ponder the glories of Earthy Elemen 
tal Evil. A huge eye is painted on the ceil 
ing, and seems to glare down upon all in 
the place. Padded benches still line the 
walls, and several chairs remain intact. 
From the condition of these seats and the 
look of the floor, this ghastly chamber is 
still frequented on occassion. 


Nothing of value is here. 

141. BRONZE DOOR 


This portal is shut fast by a massive lock. 
Upon its surface are runes (see illustra 
tion). Possibly they identify what is 
beyond, or perhaps they are some sort of 
warning. 



These runes form a glyph of warding, which 
inflicts 20 points of cold damage to anyone 
touching it (save vs. spells for half damage). 

The door is solid, and takes 300 points of 
damage before breaking open. However, 
any non-magical weapon used in such an 
attack may (1 in 6 chance, check per hit) 
break upon striking it. 

Inside the door is a rough-hewn crypt, 




with a passage leading north to a secondary 
burial place. Each of the 11 crypts contains 
the body of a cleric who met death in the 
service of the Earth Temple. Each body still 
wears the bronze ring with triangular setting 
of jet (worth 50 gp each). One body (ran 
domly determined) still wears a cloak of 
protection +1. However, for each crypt 
opened, a I in 6 chance exists for all within 5 
feet to contract respiratory disease (no Sav 
ing Throw), and this is automatic for the 
crypt containing the magical cloak. The 
vaults are relatively easy to open. 

142. BLACK CHAMBER 

Note: Decrease chances of wandering mon 
sters in this area, and in the corridor leading 
south to it, to 1 in 20 (per turn). 


All of the stonework here is black, the 
surfaces being polished to a smooth, 
glossy texture. The domed ceiling 30 feet 
overhead shows phosphorescent gleams, 
each small dot obviously representing a 
star and the combinations making minia 
ture constellations. A broken obsidian 
altar stone stands in the center of the 
chamber; the place is otherwise empty. 
An arched exit, about 7 feet wide and 12 
feet tall, breaks the smooth curve to the 
south. Upon the upper archway are 
carved letters in Common: 

EXHAULTED CHAMBER 
OF HIGH AUGURY 


143. AUGURY CHAMBER 

Note: Decrease chances of wandering mon 
sters in this area to 1 in 20 (per turn). 


This 30' diameter chamber is finished in 
polished black stone, similar to the room 
immediately to the north. The phosphores 
cent gleamings 40 feet or so above have a 
bluish cast. In the center of the floor is a cir 
cular depression about one foot deep and 
ten feet in diameter. Around it is a low 
stone seat, so low that only halflings could 
comfortably sit upon it - or humans if 
they sat facing inward. 


Seated as described, visitors notice small 
cuts in the lower part of the seat. These are 
small drawers, spaced at intervals under the 
bench. There are eight in all, and seven are 


empty; the last one examined contains 
strange bits of bone, ivory, rock, and wood: 
rods, cubes, cones, and other shapes. The 
holder of these objects feels an overwhelm 
ing urge to cast them into the shallow, cup 
like depression in the very center of the 
place. Suggest that their configuration 
might reveal answers to simple questions. If 
players nibble at this, hand them ldl2, 3d6 
(of different colors), and 2d4. Explain that 
these are representative of the mystic 
counters of augury, and that they should 
cast them after asking some question. 

Use the results of the following charts to 
determine the answer to the question, if 
appropriate, read the message of the dice on 
the 3d6, using each d4 to resolve choices. (Add 
articles - the, an, a - as needed.) Use only 
the d!2 if the answer is a yes-or-no type. 

Be sure to study all of the dice before 
replying. Answers are nonsense, of course, 
though some might actually be applicable 
by sheer chance. 


First d6 

Second d6 

Thirdd6 

1 Goto 

upper/lower 

room/ 

chamber 

2 Seek 

nearest/ 

farthest 

object/idol 

3 Find 

N/S/E/W 

stairway up/ 
down 

4 Beware 

ancient/ 

arcane 

altar/temple 

5 Shun 

forbidden/ 

passage/ 


cursed 

tomb 

6 Oppose 

secret/mystic 

being/artifact 


Yes/No (Id 12) 

1 Yes or Always 

2 No or Probably not 

3 Possibly 

4 Perhaps or Maybe 

5 Positively 

6 Never! 

7 Unknown 

8 Ask later 

9 Hazy or Clouded 

10 Uncertain 

11 Unlikely 

12 in effect 

The secret door to the south opens by pressing 
a section of the wall at 7 feet height, and then 
pushing it downwards. A three-foot-wide, 
five-foot-high opening appears as the block 
sinks into the floor. Counterweighted by sand 
bags, the secret door rises in one round. 


54 








144. HALL OF TRIANGLES 


This corridor is sheathed in polished 
brown marble, veined with black. Inlaid in 
the floor are triangular pieces of polished 
yellow marble, forming a definite path 
leading around the corner to the north. 
The brown of the marble shades toward 
beige as it proceeds northwards, but 
deepens to a dark chocolate hue south 
ward. Large bronze cressets are staggered 
at 10' intervals on either side of the hall; 
someone or something obviously keeps 
them fueled and burning brightly. 


145. THE EARTH TEMPLE 

Note: Read the entire description carefully 
before starting play in this area. 


This great open area is obviously the one 
in which the principle of the Elemental 
Evil of Earth is served. The walls are 
rough-hewn sandstone, but the entire 
floor is dark brown earth. 

Some sort of phosphorescent lichen 
provides a dim illumination throughout 
the vast area. It grows on walls and ceil 
ing, supports and arches. Cressets and 
wall sconces indicate that, during cere 
monies, other light sources are used. 

In the center of the room, occupying a 
20 ' square area, is a pyramid of hard- 
packed dirt; the sides rise about six feet, 
and the top is flat, forming an area about 
six feet square. Stone steps are set in the 
four faces of the pyramid. Atop it is a 
stone column, each of its four faces bear 
ing a carved triangle and sporting a pair 
of bronze manacles dangling from bolted 
rings. At the base of the south face of the 
column rests a bronze box. 

Three doors are in the south wall; 
those to the left and right are normal, but 
the center pair are huge bronze valves. 
These bear a strange set of silvery- 
glowing runes, obviously chiseled into 
their face by someone other than their 
maker. They are sealed shut, with soft 
iron filling all the cracks. 


The normal doors on the south wall lead to 
areas 145 F and 145 G, described after this 
Temple area. 

The depth of the earth in this room is six 
feet. The bronze box by the column is not 
locked; it contains a bronze maul, knife, 



bowl, and ewer. All of these items are evil, 
and detectably so; each item (including the 
box) is worth 25 gp. 

As with the main entrance of the Upper 
Temple, the n the large pair of doors are an 
antipathy spell, made permanent upon 
them. All those who failed any previous 
saving throw against this effect cannot 
approach the doors; any intruder whose 
saving throws were successful must here 
again make a saving throw vs. spells, with 
the usual -2 penalty, or suffer the effects. 

Four earth elementals are here, hidden 
under the dirt floor at four points (indicated 
by the letters A, B, C, and D on the map). 
An elemental attacks any victim within ten 
feet of it, and ceases attacking immediately 
when and if this situation ends. 

Elementals (4): AC 2, MV 6", HD 16, hp 
A = 87, B = 74, C = 71, D = 69, #AT 1, D 
4-32, SD + 2 weapon to hit; XP 4155, 
3960, 3915, 3885 

A holy word or wish dispels all of the ele 
mentals, but otherwise they must be fought 
and slain to rid the area of their presence. A 
dispel magic does not affect them. 

If an intruder enters this room further 
that 20 feet from any entrance, all four ele 
mentals rise up out of the earth and stand 
motionless. If the intruder tries to leave, the 
elementals start patrolling, as follows. Four 
roman numerals surround each letter; each 
elemental moves first to I, then II, III, IV, I 
(etc.), taking one round for each "leg" of the 
trip. The elementals continue this patrol as 
long as any living thing remains in the area, 
if all intruders manage to depart, the ele 
mentals return to their original positions 
(the letters) and burrow back down, leaving 
no trace of their patrol or presence. 

If all intruders move directly to the cen 
tral pyramid (instead of attempting escape), 
the elementals do not patrol. Instead, they 
all move to their IV positions near the pyra 
mid) and do not move again for 1 turn, 
unless approached (activating their "attack 
reflex"). The elementals do not climb the 
pyramid in any case. After their 1 turn of 
immobility, any elemental that has not had 
1 ewerful of blood poured upon it actively 
pursues intruders, reaching up towards 
those upon the pyramid, if applicable. 
(Intruders thereon must be careful of stray 
ing too close to the edge....) 

EXCEPTION: Anyone wearing the robe 
of Romag (the brown vestment with the 



four triangles set with gems) can move 
freely among the elementals without suffer 
ing attack. The wearer can furthermore 
command their movements by verbal 
instructions in the Common tongue (though 
they cannot leave this Temple). 

Buried under the dirt at each of the IV 
positions is great treasure. The digging of 
any one area takes 12 man-turns, i. e. 2 turns 
for 6 persons, 3 turns for 4 persons, etc. No 
more than six persons can excavate one area 
at the same time. Nothing is found in any 
dig until after one full turn of work, regard 
less of the number of participants. 

The first area excavated and searched 
produces 800 gp and a flask, a potion of 
diminution. 

The second area produces 200 pp and a 
suit of ring mail + 1. 

The third area produces 28 brown spinels 
(each worth 100 gp) and a morning star + 1. 

The fourth and last area excavated and 
searched produces a ring of protection + 1, 
rope of climbing, a leather case containing a 
wand of paralyzation (38 charges), and a 
brass box containing three jars of 
Keoghtom's ointment. 

145 F. WEST ROOM 


This is probably a robing room, with no 
exit save the door you have opened. A 
padded bench runs the length of the east 
wall of this 10' square room. A number 
of pegs and hooks are along the north 
and south walls, and a large cabinet 
stands by the west wall. Seven cloaks of 
brown cloth are hanging on the pegs, 
and three pairs of sandals are tucked 
under the bench. 


The cloaks and sandals are human-sized. In 
the cabinet are eight padlocks and their keys 
(each set worth 1-4 gp to any Thieves' 
Guild), several large jars of wine, twelve 
pewter drinking cups, five plates with small 
amounts of different sorts of dirt (red, yel 
low, brown, black, and pale gray), an ivory 
bracelet set with a huge carnelian (worth 
500 gp), and a bone scroll case. The last con 
tains a scroll of protection from earth ele 
mentals, a 10' radius effect produced after 
six segments of reading; the effect lasts for 5- 
40 (5d8) rounds, but fully blocks only 24 Hit 
Dice of elementals, thus stopping only one 
such creature (but giving a -8 AC bonus 
against the attack of a second). 


55 







145 G. EAST ROOM 


A heap of large and small stones fills the 
center of this 10' square room. Piles of dif 
ferent types of dirt are in the corners and 
along the walls, and only a narrow path 
through the room remains clear. Twelve 
small kegs are stacked along the south 
wall, three across and four high. You see no 
exit, save the door you have opened. 


The rocks are worthless, and one is actually 
a stone of weight. The dirt is Just that. The 
kegs are filled with fuel oil for the cressets; 
each holds just a bit more than seven gallons 
(worth about 16 gp per gallon). On the 
inside face of the door (and probably unde 
tected while the door is open) is a parchment 
bearing a message, in Common, it instructs 
Romag to pay his fealty to the Water Ele 
mental Temple or else prepare to die horri 
bly. It reminds him that the relative power 
of their elements is reflected in the predomi 
nance of water to land. Several obscene 
remarks have been added to the missive, 
probably by Romag.... 

146. PIT CHAMBER 


A relatively short flight of stairs leads 
down to a 20' long walkway, 10' wide. 
To the north of the walkway is a pit, 20' 
square and 10' deep. The floor of the pit 
is slimy and covered with bones and 
filth. The rough stone walls are pocked 
with small openings near the floor, but 
they become smooth and unclimbable 
four feet above the floor of the pit. 


If more than 100 pounds of weight are on 
the walkway while no weight is on the lower 
stairs, a trap in sprung. The walkway is bal 
anced in a cupped socket, and the weight 
upon it causes the ledge and seven feet of the 
wall behind it to tilt sharply down to the 
north. The smooth stone offers no hold to 
the hapless victims, each of whom takes 1-6 
points of damage from falling into the pit. 
With the weight gone, the pivoting ledge 
swivels back to its original position. 

At the sound of victims falling into the 
pit, 24 giant rats rush out from their wall 
burrows, being trained to attack after that 
stimulus. Victims lose all shield and dexter 
ity bonuses to armor class in the first round, 
as well as initiative, but combat is normal 
thereafter. Each round, 24 more rats rush 
out and attack, until all 144 have arrived. 



Giant Rats (144): AC 7, MV 12"/6", HD 
1/2, hp 4, 3, 2, 1 (36 of each), #AT 1, D 1- 
3, SA 8 carry disease, XP II (x36), 10 
(x36), 9 (x36), 8 (x36) 

The rats have no treasure, but 1-12 of each 
coin type (cp, sp, ep, gp, pp) lie scattered 
under the litter on the floor. Searchers find 
one coin per person per round until all are 
discovered. 

147. ROOM, 20' x 20' 

Three bugbears are on guard in this room. 
They are gaolers and know nothing of the 
secret door in the west wall. Their master, the 
human turnkey (area 152), is away. They fight 
until they see that the situation is hopeless, 
and then attempt to escape or surrender. 

Bugbears (3): AC 5, MV 9", HD 3 + 1, hp 
19, 17, 14, #AT 1, D 2-8 (bardiche), SA 
surprise 50%; XP211, 203, 191 

The bugbears wear black leather jacks 
adorned with a pale brown pattern of two 
triangles. Each carries 2-16 sp, 2-16 ep, and 

2-16 gp. 


This plain room contains little of inter 
est. A peg shoved between the blocks of 
stone on the west wall holds a robe of 
dull black cloth adorned with a pale 
brown pattern, a pair of triangles one 
atop the other, in the southeast corner of 
the room stands an old battered table 
with two chairs, a stool, and a bench 
(along its south edge) clustered around 
it. A cask is on the table, with some 
earthenware mugs and bits and pieces of 
food. Three torches burn in wall sconces, 
and eight fresh ones lie on the floor. An 
open cupboard in the northeast corner 
displays old plates, several mugs, lumpy 
sacks, and a string of small dried sau 
sages. A large water barrel stands near 
the southwest corner, opposite the door. 


The cask on the table holds two gallons of 
beer. The lumpy sacks in the cupboard con 
tain only hard biscuits. 

148. PROCESSIONAL CORRIDOR 


This 20' wide passage is sheathed in 
marble, veined with black, its hue dark 
ens as one proceeds to the south. Cres 



sets are regularly spaced along the corri 
dor's length, but they are unlit except to 
the far north. At the angle turn, the walls 
are decorated with painted scenes show 
ing captives of all sorts suffering death 
by water, wind, and fire. The pictures 
seem to emit a fiery glow when watched. 

Broad steps descend at the southern 
most point. 


The murals at each of the angle turns (just 
west and east of areas 145 F and G, respec 
tively) are painted in luminous pigments, 
producing the eerie glowing but non- 
magical effect. Careful examination of the 
scenes reveals that one figure is a robed 
cleric with an inset triangle of bronze, obvi 
ously a priest of the Elemental Earth Tem 
ple. The broad steps lead down to another 
pair of bronze doors, protected by the 
antipathy effect. (See Upper Works main 
entrance for diagram and full details, or 
area 145 for a brief synopsis.) 

149. GUARD ROOM 

The pit trap outside each southern door to this 
room activates when stepped upon, dropping 
one victim ten feet (for 1-6 points of damage). 
The pit walls are smooth and not climbable by 
anyone in heavy armor without assistance. 
Anyone aware of the pits (such as the residents 
herein) can walk carefully around their sides, 
avoiding problems. 

Eighteen guards (Level 0 men-at-arms) are 
quartered at this key point, with three leaders 
(Level 3 Fighters). Guards defeated in random 
encounters (maximum of six in a patrol party, 
plus one Level 3 leader) came from this spot, 
and casualties must be deducted from the orig 
inal numbers given here. 

All of the guards are armed and ready, 
and all have missile weapons (half with light 
crossbows, half with javelins), if alerted by 
noise to the south of the room (such as the 
operation of a pit trap), they observe by 
using spy holes in the doors, and may turn 
valves at the wall basin (location X on the 
map) to flood the pits. They stay ready to 
attack intruders not destroyed by the pits. 

if appropriate, one leader takes half of the 
troops to circle around to attack intruders 
from the rear, using the secret door to circle 
north or the longer route through the nor 
mal door (at the end of the southwest diago 
nal corridor) to circle south. 

In any engagement, guards try to dis- 


56 









charge one missile volley, drop their cross 
bows, and close to melee with swords 
drawn. Leaders hold back to throw their 
spare javelins, and may replace casualties in 
the front line, flank intruders, or pick up 
and use dropped crossbows. 

Guards (12-18): AC 4, MV 9", Level 0, hp 4 
each, #AT 1, D 1-8 (longsword), SA half 
with javelins (D 1-6, ranges 2"/4"/6"), 
half with light crossbows (D 2-5); XP 18 
each 

Leader (2-3): AC 4, MV 9", Level 3 Fighter, 
24, 21, 20, #AT 1, Dl-8 (longsword), SA 
2 javelins each (D 1-6, ranges 2 "/4 "/6 "), 
each with Strength 17 (+ 1 "to hit"/ + 1 
damage); each leader commands six 
guards; XP 122, 113, 110 

Each guard wears chain mail armor and car 
ries a shield. The shield and the normal garb 
are adorned with the brown and black trian 
gle of the Earth Temple. Each leader is 
armored in like fashion, and wears a neck 
lace from which hangs a bronze medallion 
with a raised triangle (worth 20 gp). Each 
guard carries 1-6 sp and 1-6 ep. Each leader 
has 2-12 ep, 2-12 gp, and 2-12 pp. 


The light in this 30' square room comes 
from four torches, one on each wall, and 
several large candles standing on long 
trestle tables. Also on the tables, which 
are flanked by benches, are food, drink, 
and knucklebones. The dishes and ves 
sels are ordinary pottery. Narrow three 
tiered bunks line the north, east, and 
west walls. The unadorned walls and 
weapons racks indicate that this room 
was originally allocated as a place for 
guards. The racks are full of various 
weapons and shields. A fountain in the 
south wall flows into a wall basin, under 
which are four large knobs. 


The weapons racks hold 12 spears, 6 jave 
lins, 4 shortswords, 3 hand fixes, and 8 
shields. The large knobs under the basin are 
the controls for flooding the pit traps. 

150. CELLS 


This seems to be a line of gaol cells. Each 
door has a small barred window, and a 
large lock and bar as well. 


Use the following general description for 



each cell, adding prisoner notes (below). 
Note that the doors on the east walls of cells 
a, b, and c cannot be seen or opened from 
inside a cell. Careful inspection reveals a 
tiny opening in each, and probing gives a 
metallic sound (when the probe meets the 
cover of the spy hole; see further notes for 
area 151). 


The cell is 10' square, with closely set 
stone blocks in wall and floor; the ceiling 
is actually hewn from living rock. Straw 
litters the floor, and chains hang from the 
far wall. A small drain is in the center of 
the floor. 


When a door is opened, the inside is found 
to be covered with a sheet of rusty iron. No 
cell contains any treasure. 

Eastern Rooms: 

The doors of cells a, b, and c are neither 
locked nor barred, but as long as they 
remain shut, their "ragged human" occu 
pants (three zombies in each) stay huddled 
in their straw, appearing as captives and (of 
course) not speaking. All three zombies of a 
cell attack if their door is opened. 

Zombies (9, 3 per cell): AC 8, MV 6 ", HD 2, 
hp 10 each, #AT 1, D 1-8, SD 1/2 dam 
age from stabbing weapons; automati 
cally lose initiative; XP 40 each 

Western Rooms: 

The doors to cells d, e, and f are locked and 
barred. Cells d and f are empty. Cell e con 
tains one gnome, bound and gagged and 
chained to the far wall. The turnkey (see 
area 152) is not positive that this character 
isn't able to use some form of magic, and so 
keeps him gagged except during feeding 
times (once per day). 

The gnome s name is Wonnilon. He came 
to this place to get treasure, of course, since 
he was flat broke. He is Neutral, and claims 
to be a fighter (but is also a thief). If freed, 
equipped, and well treated, he considers 
staying with the party, as the characters 
seem powerful (they have, after all, pene 
trated this far) and therefore promise plenty 
in the way of treasure. If not given a fair 
share of the proceeds, Wonillon steals to 
make up the difference. If badly treated, he 
waits his chance for a good opportunity, 
steals as much treasure and magic as possi 
ble, and sneaks away to leave the Nulb area 
entirely. 



Wonillon, Level 4/4 Fighter/Thief, hp 23 S 
17 I 12 W9D17CO 16 Ch 10 AC 7 (no 
armor), #AT 1, D 0 (no weapons), SA by 
professions, SD by race; XP 363 

151. SECRET CORRIDOR 


This passage shows disuse; it is dusty, 
dirty, and filled with cobwebs. However, 
someone wearing boots has made use of 
the place with fair frequency, as shown 
by occasional tracks. Three iron doors 
line the west wall, each with great hinges 
set to bear the weight of such portals. 
Each also has a small iron hatch. An old 
gray blanket hangs on the east wall. 


The hatch on each door can slide to the 
right, producing a spy hole through which 
one may see into the cell beyond. 

Behind the blanket is a small alcove with 
a cot, small table, chair, lantern, 12 flasks of 
oil, a barrel (one quarter filled with wine), 
foodstuffs (the equivalent of three normal 
rations), some old clothing on pegs in the 
wall, an iron chest, and a heap of glittering 
equipment. The pile is Wonnilon's adven 
turing gear, including leather armor, a 
shortsword, backpack, miscellaneous 
items, and a very plain-looking but magical 
dagger +2 (in a scabbard). From these con 
tents one might assume (correctly) that this 
is the residence of the turnkey (who is pres 
ently in area 152). 

The chest is secured by a large padlock. 
Inside are 411 cp, 151 sp, 90 ep, 55 gp, 27 
pp, and a small wooden box. Inside this box 
are two potions of healing, which the turn 
key saves for use on particularly choice vic 
tims.... 

152. TORTURE CHAMBER 

The solid door to this area is not locked, and 
can be opened easily and quietly if care is 
taken. The turnkey and his bugbear assist 
ant are here busily engaged in torturing a 
human on a rack, and will therefore proba 
bly be surprised (1-4 on ld6) by careful and 
quiet invaders. 

Turnkey: AC 2, MV 9", Level 5 Fighter, hp 
30, #AT 1, D 2-9 (battle axe); XP 240 

Bugbear: AC 3, MV 9", HD 3 + 1, hp 22, 
#AT 1, D 1-8 (flail); XP 223 


57 









The turnkey is wearing chain mail armor, 
and has 16 Strength and 17 Dexterity (the 
damage and AC bonuses for which are 
included in the statistics above). He wears a 
bronze ring with a triangular setting of jet 
(worth 50 gp), and has 23 gp in his purse. 
Inside a hidden pocket in his surcoat are 
four tourmalines (worth 100 gp each). The 
bugbear is wearing a chain mail shirt and 
leather jack with metal plates. In its purse 
are 1-6 sp, 1-6 ep, 1-6 pp, and a rock crystal 
(worth 50 gp). 

Their victim is a man-at-arms, who was 
recently taken in a raid which netted other 
captives (see below). He refused to join the 
Temple fighters, and so is to be slowly killed 
here and then fed to the gnolls. 

Victim: AC 10, Level 0, hp 3 (originally 6); 

XP 13 


Lurid light from a flaming cresset and a 
glowing brazier full of charcoal reveals a 
30 x 20' chamber containing a rack, 
iron maiden, cage, and all the other 
unspeakable devices common to a tor 
ture chamber. Two adjacent 10' square 
alcoves, one to the south and one east, 
are barred, their doors held fast by chain 
and padlock. Two prisoners are in each, 
obviously here to await the tender mer 
cies of the torturers. Two female humans 
are in the south alcove, and two ores in 
the east. 


The humans are mere country folk, taken in 
a recent raid. They ask to be shown an exit 
from the dungeon so that they may return to 
their homes. The ores join and fight with the 
party if given arms (being Lawful and 
opposed to the Temple followers, despite 
their evil natures) though they desert in any 
tough situation. They know a way to get to 
the level below (area 153) and the route to 
stairs up (near the south end of the level 
map, east and west sides). 

153. SPIRAL STAIR 


This 10' wide spiral staircase circles 
clockwise down a shaft 20 feet in diame 
ter. The stairs have no rail, but otherwise 
appear safe and sound. 


This staircase leads down to area 246 
(Dungeon Level Two), an empty corridor 
intersection. 




Dungeon 
Level Two 

RANDOM ENCOUNTERS 

Roll ld% once per turn and refer to the fol 
lowing chart. (A result of 11 or more means 

no encounter). If Zuggtmoy is free to roam 

this level, she appears if the result is 00. 

IdlOO Result 

01 8 bandits, 2 LI fighters, and 1 L4 

leader, returning to areas 240-244; 
with 1-4 prisoners, general food 
stuffs, etc., and 100-400 (d 100 x 4) 
gp in all. 

02-04 4-6 bugbears, wandering around 
looking for food and loot; no trea 
sure. 

05 1 carrion crawler, no treasure 

06 1 ochre jelly, no treasure. 

07-09 2-4 ogres looking for an undescribed 
humanoid rumored to have 
attacked one of their kind; no trea 
sure. 

10 1-2 trolls, followers of the troll 

chieftain in area 229, coming in to 
report; no treasure. 

11-99 No encounter. 

00 Zuggtmoy (if free). 

Details 

Bandits (8); AC 8 (leather armor) or 7 (with 
shield), MV 12", Level 0, #AT 1, D 1-6 
(shortsword) or 2-5 (light crossbow); AL 
CE-NE, XP 14 + 1 /hp 

Veterans (2): AC 4 (chain &. shield), MV 9", 
Level 1 Fighter, hp 9, 6, #AT 1, D 1-8 
(longsword) or 1-6 (spear); AL NE, XP 
19, 16 

Leader: AC 2 (plate 8. shield), MV 6", Level 
4 Fighter, hp 37, #AT 1 or 2, D by 
weapon (bastard sword, shortbow, 
spear, etc.); AL NE, XP 

Bugbears (4-6): AC 5, MV 9", HD 3 + 1, #AT 
1, D 2-8 (morning star), SA surprise on 1- 
3; AL CE, SZ L (7' + ), XP 135 + 4/hp 

Carrion Crawler: AC 3/7, MV 12", HD 
3 + 1, hp 14, #AT 8, D 0 + paralysis (2-5 
turns); AL N, SZ L (9'), XP 580 + 4/hp 

Ochre jelly: AC 8, MV 3", HD 6, hp 25, 


#AT I, D 3-12, SD lightning splits; ALN, 
SZ M, XP 150 + 6/hp 

Ogres (2-4); AC 4, MV 9", HD 4 + 1, #AT1, 
D 3-10 (stone-set club, ld8 + 2); AL CE, 
SZ L (9' + ), XP 90 + 5/hp 

Trolls (1-2): AC 4, MV 12", HD 6 + 6, #AT 
3, D 5-8/5-8/2-12, SA military fork 
(range 10, damage 3-10), SD regener 
ates (3 hp per round starting 3 rounds 
after being damaged); AL CE, SZ L (9 ), 
XP 525 + 8/hp 

Zuggtmoy: See Appendix B. 

ROOM KEY 

201. GREAT BRONZE GATE 

This site can be reached from Dungeon Level 

One by descending the ramp in area 109. 


The passage is barred by a huge sheet of 
bronze, the surface of which is covered 
with bas relief faces of evil leering crea 
tures. It is evidently placed to bar further 
progress north, though 10 wide corri 
dors lead east and west. This portal is too 
massive to even attempt to raise by brute 
strength. 


The gateway can be opened by no less than 
three consecutive knock spells - one each 
for locks, bars, and the gate itself. It can be 
raised normally from the northern side, 
using a windlass (see area 211). It has not 
been opened in several years, as no full- 
ceremony sacrifices have been made since 
the Temple was overthrown. 

Note that this is not one of the four gates 
protected by the permanent antipathy effect 
to bind Zuggtmoy. 

202. DOMED CHAMBER 

A five-headed hydra guards this chamber, 
bound by a leg chain. If any visible creature 
tries to enter, the hydra hisses loudly and 
strikes. This brings its keeper from area 203 
in one round. The hydra has no treasure. 

Hydra: AC 5, MV 9", HD 5, hp 40 (8 per 
head), #AT 5, D 1-6 each; XP 365 


This 40 1 diameter area has an arched 
ceiling some 30 feet high. Its polished 


58 








stones indicate that it was once meant for 
some special purpose, lost now under a 
litter of refuse, bones, and dung. A huge 
metal ring has been cemented into the 
center of the floor, and a heavy iron 
chain of about eight feet length is fas 
tened to the ring. 


203.OLDSTOREROOM 

The hydra's keeper, a troll, dwells here on 
orders from its master, the priest of the Fire 
Temple. Upon hearing any noise from its 
beast, it grabs its military fork and investi 
gates. Those with proper identification - 
robes of the Fire Temple or the eight-pointed 
amulet - can pass, for the troll then shoves 
the hydra aside and stops its heads from 
attacking by quick use of the weapon. The 
troll otherwise not only allows the beast to 
attack, but aids it, attacking with the 
weapon (which it can use long range, strik 
ing opponents up to ten feet distant and 
gaining a +2 bonus to damage, due to 
Strength). If enemies close on it, the troll 
discards the weapon and attacks normally 
(tooth and claw). The trolls only treasure is 
a ring of fire resistance it wears. 

Troll: AC 4, MV 12', HD 6 + 6, hp 42, #AT 
3, D 5-8/5-8/2-12, SA military fork 
(range 10', damage 3-10), SD regener 
ates (3 hp per round starting 3 rounds 
after being damaged); XP 861 


Boxes, crates, and barrels line the walls 
of this 30 'x 20' chamber. Spilled con 
tents - flour, grain, broken crockery, 
and who knows what else - are mixed 
with old bones, broken furniture, splin 
tered wood, rags, and ordure up to a 
depth of at least a foot. The whole area 
stinks of troll. 


The containers hold nothing valuable, all 
being spilled, rotted, or spoiled, save a 
small cask holding two gallons of fuel oil 
(worth about 16 gp per gallon) and a box 
containing 20 fresh torches. 

204. ROOM, 30' x 20' 

Five bugbears are stationed here as guards; 
two are on watch. In case of attack, the 
three resting in the western arm of the U- 
shaped area arrive one round after the first 
two are engaged. Each bugbear throws a 


spear before engaging in melee with a morn 
ing star. If hard-pressed, one bugbear tries 
to rouse the clerics in area 205. 

Bugbears (5); AC 5 MV 9", HD 3 + 1, hp 17 
each #AT 1, D 2-8 (morning star), SA 1 
spear each (D 1-6, ranges 1 "/2"/3"); XP 
203 each 

Each bugbear wears a short cape of crimson 
cloth. Each carries 2-12 gp, 2-12 ep, and 2- 
12 sp. 


A fireplace on the east wall and a flowing 
fountain and basin on the west wall are 
the most remarkable features of this plas 
tered but unpainted chamber. A large 
table stands in the center of the room, 
flanked by a pair of benches; all are a bit 
too large to be comfortable to humans. 
A sizeable haunch of some sort of cold 
meat is on the table. An old barrel stands 
in the center of the north wall, and holds 
seven spears. Heaps of bedding lie along 
the south passageway to the west. 



205. LUXURIOUS CHAMBER COMPLEX 


This complex consists of the following four 
rooms: 

205a. Anteroom, occupied by a half-ore 
Cleric/Fighter (Levels 3/3) who is 
ready to reinforce the guards to the 
north (area 204) 

205b. Main chamber, occupied by a human 
Curate (Level 4 Cleric) who is ready 
to reinforce the guards to the south 
(area 206) 


205c. Western side room, occupied by a 
human Prefect (Level 5 Cleric) 

205d. Eastern side room, unoccupied (the 
Curate's bedroom) 

The half-ore or the Curate (but not both) 
will aid guards, but will not disturb the pre 
fect unless absolutely necessary. 

Each of the three priests wears a gold 
amulet on a golden chain; the amulet 
depicts the symbol of Fire: 

205a. ANTEROOM 

The half-ore priest herein is the liaison to the 
bugbear guards. He wears a red robe with a 
gold skull emblem, but with plate mail armor 
underneath, and carries a shield as well. His 
gold Are amulet on a gold chain is worth 100 
gp. He wears a ring set with a large violet gar 
net (jewelry value 700 gp), and carries 11 ep, 
16 gp, and 7 pp in his purse. 

Half-ore: AC 2 (plate 8. shield), MV 6", 
Level 3/3 Cleric/Fighter, hp 22, #AT 1, D 
3-6 (hammer), Strength 16 ( + 1 damage 
bonus included), SA spells; XP 315 
First level: cause fear, cure light wounds, 
protection from good 
Second level: hold person 


This 10 square room is plastered but 
otherwise unadorned. It is lit by a lan 
tern and a burning torch, the latter on 
the east wall. The room contains a 
couch, writing table and chair, small bra 
zier, and a brass-bound chest; on the 
table are quills, an inkpot, and a roll of 
parchment. 


The locked chest holds garments, a potion 
of poison, and a leather bag containing 37 
gp and 19 ep. 

205b. MAIN CHAMBER 

The human Curate herein, assistant to the 
chief cleric, is sipping wine and relaxing. His 
crimson hooded robe has gold embroidered 
skulls on front and back; his golden chain 
and fire amulet are worth 100 gp. He wears 
chain mail armor and carries a shield, and 
also wears a ring of protection +1. In the 
pommel of his mace is a small but carefully 
set ruby worth 1,000 gp. He keeps 14 ep, 9 
gp, and 21 pp in his purse. 








Curate: AC 1 (chain Ik shield), MV 9 ", Level 
4 Cleric, hp 17, #AT 1, D 1-6 (mace), 
Dexterity 16 (-2 AC bonus included), SA 
spells, XP 243 

Level 1: command, darkness, light, sanctu 
ary 

Level 2: hold person, silence 15' radius 


This 20 x 30' chamber is thickly strewn 
with rugs; carpets and tapestries cover 
the walls. Illumination comes from sev 
eral candelabra, hanging lamps, and a 
fireplace. Plush furniture and soft cush 
ions are everywhere. The colors are all 
bright - scarlet, hot orange, fiery gold, 
and brilliant blue. Small tables hold 
ewers and cups, and dishes of nuts and 
sweetmeats. A large box stands near the 
fireplace. The plastered ceiling is painted 
with scenes of demons and humans in 
lewd activities. Linder a heap of pillows 
is a hooded robe of scarlet hue. 


One tapestry sewn with gold and silver thread 
is worth 2,000 gp, but the others have no 
worth. The ewers and cups are of pewter and 
small worth, and contain wine. The robe 
under the pillows is the garb of an important 
guest of the Fire Temple. The box by the fire 
place is filled with billets of wood, charcoal, 
and kindling for the maintenance of the fire. 

205c. WESTERN SIDE ROOM 

This is the private chamber of the human 
Prefect Alrrem, chief cleric of the Fire Tem 
ple, who is here writing another ultimatum 
to Romag (area 137). Alrem knows that the 
priests of the Water Temple are close to forc 
ing the servants of the Air Temple to align 
against him. His written message states, 
thus far, "Your rewards will be great if you 
bend your knee to Fire. Bring all of your 
forces here to me now, and swear fealty, if 
you fail to heed this advice..." Alrrem is des- 
parate, for his faction (having lost power 
when it led the Temple to defeat) now has 
few adherents and no particular strength in 
troops; he needs the forces being gathered 
by the Earth Temple to counter those of the 
Air and Water Temples. 

Alrrem wears a robe of deep crimson with 
a purple lining and gold trim; it has gold 
skulls on front, back, and sleeves. His gold 
fire symbol (on golden chain) is set with a 
nice ruby (jewelry value 2,500 gp). He has a 
scroll of three spells in a tube at his belt (dis 
pel magic, flame strike, tongues), and car 



ries 5 gp, 38 pp, and 4 zircons (worth 50 gp 
each) in his purse. He wears magical chain 
mail and shield, and carries two hammers 
- one normal (carried as a spell compo 
nent) and one hammer +2. 

Prefect Alrrem: AC 0 (chain +2 Ik shield 
+ I), MV 12 ", Level 5 Cleric, hp 31, #AT 
1, D 4-7 (hammer + 2), Dexterity 16 (-2 
AC bonus included), SA spells; XP 520 
First level: command, cure light wounds, 
light, resist cold, sanctuary 
Second level: hold person, know alignment, 
resist fire, silence 15' radius, spiritual 
hammer 

Third level: cause blindness, prayer 


The western side room is furnished simi 
larly to the main room. It contains a 
large bed, two small side tables, a round 
table with four chairs, a stand with 
basin, ewer, and a small copper box, a 
wardrobe, and a brass brazier filled with 
brightly glowing coals and giving off 
wisps of sulphurous-smelling incense. A 
large brass chest with a heavy lock is at 
the foot of the bed. 


The chest holds clothing, a suit of normal 
chain mail armor, a normal mace, and a 
sack containing 100 gp. The top of the cop 
per box is inlaid with sardonyx, and the 
whole is worth 150 gp. it holds rare herbs 
worth 200 gp. The wardrobe holds a red silk 
robe with golden skulls on its back and 
sleeves, and with the eight-pointed fire sym 
bol piqued on its front in garnets (worth a 
total of 3,000 gp). 

205d. EASTERN SIDE ROOM 


This eastern side room is 10 x 20' and 
less lavishly furnished, it has a few tapes 
tries and several small rugs, torches 
burning in wall sconces, a small table 
with a candelabra, a couch, two chairs, a 
chest, and a brazier. A book lies open on 
a small stand near the couch. A few serv 
ing pieces of brass and copper are scat 
tered around, on the table and stand. 


The six serving pieces are worth 5 cp each. 
The chest holds clothing, a small silver box 
(worth 75 gp) containing 20 pp and a jew 
eled ring (worth 500 gp), and a bone 
scrollcase which holds a scroll of protection 
from devils. The book on the stand deals 
with the Elemental Plane of Fire, and men 



tions the fire elemental grue, the harginn. 
The reader learns the descriptive informa 
tion (but not the basic statistics) of this crea 
ture; read aloud from the entry in MM2, 
page 73. The book is non-magical but worth 
500 gp (XP value 50). 

206. AUDIENCE CHAMBER 

A human commander (L5 fighter) and two 
bugbear guards are on guard here. Each 
bugbear carries a large spear to hurl before 
closing to melee; each wears a short cape of 
red cloth, and carries 3-24 gp. 

The fighter commands the few forces at 
the beck and call of the Fire Temple - the 
troll (area 203), various bugbears, were 
wolves (area 208 et al.), and ogres. He com 
mands their respect through his own ability, 
that of the clerics, and his robe of entangle 
ment, which is coiled and kept at his belt. 
When fighting, he uses it in his left hand, 
and a sword + 1 flametongue (NSA) in his 
right. He wears banded armor + 1 but pre 
fers not to use a shield. On his gold chain is 
an eight-pointed fire amulet with a large 
inset garnet (jewelry value 750 gp). He car 
ries a purse containing 6 ep, 20 gp, and 6 pp. 
In the pockets of his dark red cloak are 8 
banded agates, 5 tiger eyes, and 6 pieces of 
good turquoise (each gem worth 10 gp). 

Bugbears (2): AC 5, MV 9", HD 3+1, hp 
19, 15, #AT 1, D 2-8 (bastard sword), SA 
1 spear each (D 1-6, ranges l"/2"/3"); 
XP 211, 195 

Human leader: AC 0, MV 12", Level 5 
Fighter (swashbuckler), hp 49, #AT 1, D 
2-9 (sword +1 flametongue); Dexterity 
17 (-3 AC bonus included), SA rope of 
entanglement; XP 490 


This lavishly furnished 30' square cham 
ber is dimly lit by torches in sconces on the 
east and west walls. The many cressets and 
candelabras are unlit. Colors here are hot, 
bright ones - reds, oranges, and yellows. 
The tapestries on the walls depict scenes of 
the triumph of the Elemental Evil of Fire. 
Cushions, low tables, and stools are all 
about, but only one chair is here - a huge 
wooden seat, laquered red and gilt. A gold 
skull appears on the arm rests and above 
the back. 


The arched entry to the northwest passage is 
covered by hangings and a folding screen. 


60 








207. PEARLESCENTROOM 

No detect spell other than detect magic 
works in this room. The latter finds the 
whole room radiating a dim magical 
essence, with a more powerful dweomer 
coming from the crystal sheet (see below). 


The floor here is of white marble, the 
walls and vaulted ceiling sheathed in 
pearly alabaster. There is a "right feel" to 
the place, as a place of safety in a storm 
of evil. The room is bare and clean. A 
sheet of cloudy crystal substance seems 
to be set into the northern portion of the 
east wall. As you look, it begins to 
brighten, its radiance actually lighting 
the room! Two manlike creatures with 
wings of snowy feathers and radiant 
faces, robed in purest white, appear 
amidst golden tinted, cloud-like billows. 
A pale blue sky can be seen behind them. 
They first peer out at you, and then one 
speaks in dulcet tones, "What are fair 
and just folk such as you doing in this 
foul place of pain and base wickedness?" 


At this point, prompt answers from the party 
through further utterances from the angelic 
duo. Threaten a bolt for any "servant of Evil" 
daring to enter this "sanctuary of Good. " After 
sufficient questioning, the two figures smile 
benignly upon the viewers. They relate that 
their attention extends to this place because, 
when the Temple was overthrown, iuz (in His 
generosity and renowned kindness) placed 
this haven here, so that opponents of the Tem 
ple might find refuge in need and gain help 
against their foes. 


The brighter of the two radiant figures 
now speaks again. "Now, good folk, 
place each and every weapon you pos 
sess, all of your holy symbols, magic 
items, silvered items, and magical herbs 
before this crystal - the Window of the 
Planes of Weal - and then quickly step 
out of the west door. Count slowly to 77, 
and do not return in that time, for we 
shall send a Ray of Just Might through 
these items. Any flesh in the place would 
be blasted to oblivion by the ray, and 
any mortal eye beholding its glory would 
be forever blinded. But all your items 
will be made more effective by a factor of 
+ 1, recharged by seven, or otherwise 
doubled in efficacy - though this power 



lasts but seven hours. Hurry! We must 
act now, for our time is fast running out. 
We can help but once per seven days, 
you know!" 


If the party hesitates, the crystal slowly 
darkens into cloudy obscurity after one 
round, if the party complies with the 
requests, refer to 208 below. The crystal is a 
magical one-way mirror, protected by a 
powerful and permanent force field which 
makes it impervious to harm by anything 
less than a godling. Nothing can be seen in 
or behind it, even passwall and glassee 
being useless against its mighty dweomer. 

208. SECRET ROOM 

Two werewolves lair here. They serve the 
Fire Temple, bringing loot and victims to 
Alrrem (area 205c). The crystal sheet of area 
207 is also visible here if a covering of gray 
cloth is pulled aside. It is a lens of transfor 
mation, actually placed here for evil pur 
poses by iuz (see Appendix C). 

Upon hearing noise in the adjoining room 
(area 207), the werewolves stand before the 
lens, being seen by those on the other side as 
angelic figures. They see through the crystal 
normally. If the party balks at disarming 
themselves, the creatures step away from 
the device and wait to surprise anyone 
entering their secret door, just in case. If the 
party cooperates, the monsters rush 
through to room 207, gather up the items 
left, and quickly take them to their lair. 
Then (and only then) do they return to 
room 207, in person, to deal with the (hope 
fully) defenseless party. Those who surren 
der are taken to area 206 (and then to 205). 
Corpses are devoured by the werewolves. 

The lens cannot be removed from the wall 
by mundane means. If a wish is used, it is 
either be loosened (25% chance) or shatters 
(75%); if the latter result occurs, iuz immedi 
ately knows what happened and who did it! 

Werewolves (2): AC 5, MV 15", HD 4 + 3, 
hp 33, 28, #AT 1, D 2-8, SA if waiting in 
area 208, surprise on 1-3, SD hit only by 
silver or magic weapons; XP 370, 345 


This bare-walled 20' square room is per 
meated by a feral odor. A pair of nest 
like heaps of cloth and pillow lie by the 
east wall; bones and litter cover the 



floor. A large cupboard stands against 
the north wall. A pair of rust-red cloaks 
hang on pegs by the secret door, the only 
apparent entrance. A few pieces of dirty 
pewterware are on the cupboard shelves, 
along with two bottles of wine and a 
bunch of cooking herbs in a glass bottle. 
You notice a jumble of weapons and 
other items in the northwest corner. 


The dirty pewterware is actually silver, 15 
items worth 10-60 gp each. The bottled herbs 
are 18 sprigs of wolfsbane. The cupboard cab 
inet holds a dagger +1, a short sword + 1 / 
+ 3 vs. lycanthropes and shapechangers, and 
five silver daggers, under which is a scroll of 
protection from lycanthropes (all) flat and 
upside-down, as if shelf-paper. Under a loose 
floor stone, found only after a careful search, 
is a hole containing 1,629 sp. The pile in the 
corner contains various odds and ends of 
adventuring gear (but no food or water), plus 
the following: 


22 arrows, normal 
19 arrows, silver-tipped 

1 bow, long 

2 bows, short 

4 crossbows, light 

4 crossbow bolt cases (empty) 
82 crossbow bolts 

5 daggers 
1 flail 

1 hammer 

1 holy symbol, normal 

3 holy symbols, silvered 

1 mace 

2 mirrors, silvered 
1 morning star 

3 quivers (empty) 

3 spears 

1 sword, long 

2 swords, short 


209. PROCESSIONAL CORRIDOR 


The walls of this 20' wide passage are 
painted with scenes of gross evil, death, 
and destruction. Some also depict parties 
of worshippers and their sacrificial cap 
tives; each is led by a robed cleric. The 
great doors along the southern part of each 
wall are polished brass, with many more 
vile scenes and runes. Huge rings hang 
from their centers, for opening and closing. 


61 











Close inspection of the walls reveals inset sym 
bols of bronze adorning the pictures of the 
priests - a square on a figure wearing silvery 
gray robes, a circle on a green-robed cleric, 
and an eight-pointed device on the figure in 
red. The hinges of the huge doors are well- 
greased, and this is also discernable with 
study. A spell keeps the doors from tarnishing. 

209a. SECRET CORRIDOR 

This dusty passage connects areas 209 and 
225 (Kelno's residence). A gargoyle fountain 
on the northwest diagonal wall spurts milky 
but potable water into a stone basin. The 
north branch leads to a stairway, which 
curves counter-clockwise as it descends to 
area 314 (Dungeon Level Three). 

210. OCTAGONAL CHAMBER 

if the bronze doors in area 145 (Dungeon 
Level One) are sundered, the stairs therein 
descend south to this room. However, entry 
is blocked by another set of like doors, set in 
the north wall of this area. 


Illumination in this large octagonal room 
seems to come from everywhere - ceil 
ing, walls, floor - a milky radiance 
which gives a dim and eerie glow to the 
whole scene. The floor of this place is 15 ' 
below the level of the normal dungeon 
floor, with short broad stairways leading 
to it. The ceiling vaults to a height of 40 
feet. The walls and floor of the room are 
of polished gray stone with whorls of 
glittering mica; the floor is partially 
obscured by swirling, eddying, softly 
glowing mist. 

In the center of the area is a great pierced 
square of bronze, ten feet on a side. A dome 
is pierced in the northern ceiling, a circular 
shaft some 20 feet wide opening directly 
over a pit of the same diameter and five feet 
depth. Immediately to the south of the pit is 
a block of alabaster two feet wide, four feet 
high, and eight feet long. Atop it are two 
knives and a bowl of finest crystal. Ranking 
the pit are two crystal braziers, suspended 
from tripods by chains of silver. Each emits 
a faint sickly-sweet perfumed smoke. 

The doors to the north are bronze, 
sealed with iron, chained, barred, and 
bear a warning inscription in runes of 
some sort. 


The altar stone and crystal service pieces are 



protected by a special glyph of warding suit 
able to the place. They cannot be safely 
touched unless the symbol of the Air Temple 
is worn and the glyph name, whah-duh, is 
spoken. Failure in either requirement causes 
a whirlwind to suddenly form and spin from 
the pit to the altar, inflicting 12 points of 
damage to each creature within ten feet of 
its path (save vs. spells to take half damage). 
This also triggers an alarm; the whole area 
gives off an evil-sounding chiming and tin 
kling, and the guardian (see area 210a) is 
summoned. The two crystal knives are 
worth 250 gp each; the bowl, l,250gp. 

If the braziers are disturbed, they begin 
pouring out clouds of dense, choking smoke 
which fills 20,000 cubic feet of volume each 
round, continuing for 11-20 rounds. This 
vapor is heavier than air, and thus builds 
from the floor upwards. Treat it as a wall of 
fog, though each victim within it takes 5-8 
points of damage per round from smoke 
inhalation. After ten rounds of outpouring 
smoke, any creature within the pit is tele 
ported to the Air Cavern (area 526). 

if holy water is poured into a brazier, a 
Type I demon is instantly summoned and 
attacks everyone within the room. (Note 
that, with two braziers, two demons may be 
summoned.) Pouring any other sort of liq 
uid into a brazier causes the smoke to be 
twice as voluminous and twice as harmful 
for one round (after which output and toxic 
ity return to normal). Each brazier is worth 
10,000 gp, and functions in perfectly normal 
manner once removed from this Air Temple. 

The secret door to the west opens to a 
flight of steps to area 301 (Dungeon Level 
Three). 

The doors to the north bear the familiar 
runes of antipathy. Anyone failing any prior 
saving throw against the effect (found also in 
the main Temple entrance aboveground, as 
well as certain areas within the dungeon) can 
not approach the doors; anyone making all 
prior saving throws must again, when 
approaching within ten feet, make a saving 
throw vs. spell, (with a -2 penalty) to avoid 
this effect. 

210a. GUARDIAN 

This area quarters a drelb, the guardian of 
the Air Temple. (See Appendix A, New 
Monsters, for a full description.) The room 
is otherwise empty - but a careful search 
reveals that a section of floor is movable, 
being a secret trap door. The small space 



underneath holds a censer of controlling air 
elementals. 

Drelb guardian: AC 2, MV 6", HD 5 + 3, hp 
24, #AT 1, D 3-12, SA appears as wraith, 
shrinks while attacking (90% seems 
retreating), touch chills (victim hit drops 
items, cannot function the round there 
after), SD hit only by magic weapons, 
reflects psionic attacks; XP 944 

211. CORRIDOR OF THE ELEMENTS 


This 20' wide passageway is strangely lit 
by some obviously magical means. In the 
center and the short northern extension, 
it pulses with a disgusting gray luminos 
ity; to the west it glows with a green radi 
ance; and to the east, bands of dull red 
light seem to float in the air. Each pair of 
double doors (to the north, west, and 
east) is a great brass construction, cov 
ered with horrible scenes and leering 
faces. To the south is a huge slab of 
bronze, a solid portcullis. A mighty 
windlass flanking it to the east obviously 
raises and lowers this barrier. 


The designs in the corridor are very similar 
to those in the Processional Corridors (areas 
209). The windlass is secured with a chain 
and huge padlock, and a bar is across the 
gate - unless, of course, either or both have 
been opened. 

The central 20' square at the intersection 
is "safe, " but not so the corridors. Any 
movement out of the safe area causes the 
walls of the corridor entered to glow 
brightly, and elemental forces (see the fol 
lowing descriptions) are felt. For each ten 
feet of travel, 1-6 points of elemental dam 
age is inflicted; each victim may make a sav 
ing throw vs. spells each time this occurs, 
and success indicates that no damage is 
taken. Note that any victim carrying or 
wearing the appropriate Temple symbol 
automatically succeeds in each of these sav 
ing throws. 

East: Walls glow fiery red; the smells of sul 
fur, burning flesh, and hot metal assault the 
nostrils. Victims take heat damage. 

West: Walls, floor and ceiling shed a deep 
green gloom. Movement is slowed to 3" rate 
(as if moving underwater). A moist reek of 
seaweed and rotting fish pervades the air. 
Victims take damage as if drowning. 


62 






North: A great rush of moaning and shriek 
ing wind strikes the party. It oddly and 
undescribably smells like the winds of age, 
war, and death. Victims take cold damage 
and are blown backward 30 feet; each also 
takes 1-6 points of impact damage when hit 
ting the gate (unless it has been opened). 

212. THE TEMPLE OF FIRE 

If anyone enters by either pair of bronze 
doors, a permanent unseen servant slams 
them shut behind the visitors. 


There can be no doubt that this huge hall 
of red granite, lit by scores of flambeaux 
and pervaded by the odor of heated 
metal and sulfur, is the Fire Temple. The 
great doors of beaten brass reflect the 
leaping flames. Tapestries adorn the 
walls of the north (wider) section, depict 
ing scenes of fire in evil form. Despite the 
many torches and flaming cressets, the 
air seems to carry motes of rust-colored 
luminescence, and the streaks of blue 
and mica flakes in the polished granite 
walls appear to leap and dance as if 
flames, caught within the rock. 

A brass tube, 20' long and 2' in diam 
eter, is suspended from the ceiling by 
chains of the same metal. Just to the 
north of it is a shallow fire pit; and to 
either side of the tube are low stands of 
brass, upon which are many small blocks 
of charcoal. To either hand, east and 
west beyond lines of pillars, are great 
copper cauldrons, flanking the main area 
of the Temple. Before each such vessel is 
an octagonal brass table; on each table 
are 16 bowls and a copper dipper. 


Continue if the southern (main) Temple is 
entered. 


A glance into the huge pots finds them 
filled with some sort of glowing amber 
liquid. At the south end of the Temple 
stands a translucent block of golden apa 
tite, three feet wide and high and nine 
feet long. Skulls grin from its sides, their 
forms inlaid with hammered gold. Atop 
the altar is the eight-pointed fire symbol 
(illustrated in area 205), set in wrought 
gold. Before this altar is a fire pit of dia 
mond shape, ten feet long north-south 
and eight feet broad. It appears to be sev 
eral feet deep, and its bottom is covered 




with glowing hot coals. Tiny forms seem 
to cavort atop these coals - perhaps small 
denizens of the Elemental Plane of Fire. 


If a block of charcoal incense is placed in the 
fire pit, it instantly bursts aflame, and the 
tube - a great bell - sounds loudly, calling 
the priests and indicating that faithful wor 
shippers wish to sacrifice to the Elemental 
Evil of Fire.... The priests in area 205 cer 
tainly respond to the noise, if still alive. 

Six skulls adorn the apatite altar at the 
south; each weighs 100 gp. The wrought 
gold design on the altar can be pried off 
(weight 500 gp). 

Anyone entering the deep fire pit by the 
altar takes 4-24 points of fire damage each 
round (minimum 1-6 for even a touch) 
unless magically protected; no saving throw 
applies. With magical protection, the 
intruder takes no damage the first round, 
and only 1-6 points per round thereafter 
(again, however, with no saving throw). 
Items placed within the fire must be saved 
for each round, and vs. fireball rather than 
normal fire (due to the intensity of the heat). 
When anything or anyone enters the fire pit, 
the salamanders (see below) start to grow. 

The amber liquid in the great copper caul 
drons is fine scented oil with continual light 
in each. Approved supplicants are to fill a 
bowl to pour upon the altar. If any material 
other than copper touches the oil, a sala 
mander appears in the cauldron, igniting the 
oil and causinga wave of heat that inflicts 2- 
12 points of fire damage on each victim 
within five feet; the salamander then attacks 
the defiler of the "unholy oil. 11 

If the altar is touched prior to pouring the 
golden oil upon it, a sheet of flame expands 
out 5 feet from the altar in all directions, 
inflicting 10 points of fire damage to each 
victim (no saving throw). This causes a 
magic mouth on the central skull to bellow 
WHO DARES DEFILE THE SACRED ELE 
MENTAL FIRE?!" and the noise attracts 
clerics and guards nearby (if any). 

If oil is poured upon the altar, a magic 
mouth on the central skull speaks in com 
mon, commanding that the faithful now 
offer major sacrifice. At this, the flames of 
the fire pit leap higher, each appearing as a 
miniature salamander. Visitors must now 
either depart or make a sacrifice, placing a 
valuable treasure (worth 500 gp or more) or 
living creature in the fire pit, and leaving it 
there until destroyed. Failure to sacrifice 


causes salamanders - 16 of them! - to 
grow to full size in four rounds. However, 
only four salamanders are real; the others 
are mirror images. 

Salamanders (4): AC 5/3, MV 9", HD 7 + 7, 
hp 44, 41, 40, 37, #AT 2, D 1-6/2-12 
(spear and constriction), SA 1-6 heat 
damage added to each attack, SD + 1 or 
better weapon to hit; XP 1265, 1235, 
1225, 1195 

The salamanders cannot move or attack 
until they reach full size, but thereafter can 
even leave the fire pit to take appropriate 
actions. Each has a spear of red-hot bronze. 

The fire in the fire pit is magical and of 
evil nature. Water only causes steam and 
vapor to arise from the coals, effectively 
causing a wall offog filling the south Temple 
area and lasting one round per gallon of 
water applied. Holy water quenches one 
cubic foot of burning coals per vial, but 
unless all the coals are so quenched, the 
dead portion flames again one turn later. A 
pyrotechnics spell may be applied with 
effect, using up the coals in producing the 
effect, but the coals gain a saving throw of 
20 minus the level of the caster; for example, 
a roll of 16 or better would resist such an 
effect from a 5th level caster. If the saving 
throw is successful, the spell has no effect. 
Affect normal fires likewise has no effect if 
used to reduce the flames, but if used to 
enlarge the fire, the coals burn brightly for 
four rounds and then become absolutely 
cool for another four, after which they burst 
into glowing heat once again. 

Beneath the glowing coals of the fire pit is 
a locked iron box; however, it cannot be 
found until after 5-8 rounds of searching, 
detect magic or other magical aid notwith 
standing. The box is trapped with a scythe 
blade; when any item is lifted from the bot 
tom of the box, the razor-sharp blade neatly 
cuts through anything (no saving throw). 
Any item struck is ruined; a hand thus 
removed may only be replaced by applica 
tion of a regenerate spell. In the box are two 
potions offire resistance, a ring offire resist 
ance, and a longsword that does not glow. 
The latter is, however, a frost brand + 3/ 
+ 6 vs. (ire creatures. It is Lawful Good (int 
16, Ego 17) and speaks common, fire giant, 
red dragon, and salamander; its primary 
powers are detect evil, detect magic, detect 
shifting walls and rooms, and it has an 
extraordinary power of levitation. (See the 
DMG, pages 165-167, for more details.) 


63 







213. HALL OF VERDIGRIS 


This huge hall, 40 x 90', has an arched 
ceiling some 30 feet overhead. The many 
buttresses and arches form a tracery of 
shadowy dimness; the ceilings exact 
height is not discernible. The floor and 
walls are covered in slabs of polished 
stone, apparently azurite-malachite 
from the swirls of blue intermingled with 
the deep green. Some magic has evi 
dently been placed here, for a soft cloudy 
greenish luminosity seeps from the walls 
and floor, seemingly floating in the air, 
making the whole chamber appear as if 
deep underwater. This impression is 
enhanced by the bronze doors, fountain, 
and other work; all are covered with ver 
digris. Even the damp air seems to smell 
of the sea. Several weird things in this 
place come to your immediate attention. 

In the middle of the west wall is a great 
sheet of bronze, a bas relief of an under 
water vista - seaweed, shells, and vari 
ous forms of marine life. The head of a 
fish-like thing projects from this, a most 
hideous visage. Its ghastly maw emits a 
stream of water, which falls into a tiered 
series of four basins. The fourth and 
largest never overflows, so it must have 
a drain system somewhere. 

Near the mid-portion of the hall, some 
40 feet distant from the east wall and 30 
feet from the north wall, is a bronze altar 
with many marine creatures sculpted in 
bas relief upon its sides. It is about four 
feet high and round, with a ten-foot 
diameter. Its top is concave, and a shal 
low basin apparently about two feet 
deep is filled with water. The bottom of 
the basin is filled with coins, a sprinkling 
of gems, and many small seashells. 

In the mouth of a 20' wide alcove 
south of the altar basin stands an idol or 
statue of serpentine stone, expertly 
sculpted to depict a writhing, amor 
phous agglomeration of fish, eels, 
octopi, and other marine monsters. This 
horrid thing is about eight feet high and 
nearly as broad, the whole forming a 
globular mass standing about four feet 
from the altar basin. The alcove to its 
rear is ten feet deep, the back wall of 
which is covered by a drapery appar 
ently fashioned from seaweed and water! 

Each corner of the hall is filled by a tri 
angular plinth, filling it and extending 



about 20 feet upwards. Atop each of these 
columns is a gargoyle-like statue made of 
bronze and coated with verdigris. 


The whole place radiates a dim magic and is 
pervaded with evil. In use, offerings are 
brought to the fountain and dipped in each 
basin, highest to lowest, before being placed 
on/in the altar. If this procedure is not fol 
lowed, the gargoyles on the plinths give 
chase (see below). 

The altar basin (B) is filled with salt 
water, of course. The treasure therein con 
sists of 42 cp, 37 sp, 60 ep, 51 gp, 23 pp, and 
39 gems worth a total of 1,920 gp (17 varied 
agates worth 10 gp each, 3 bloodstones and 
6 zircons worth 50 gp each, and 4 ame 
thysts, 3 red garnets, and 6 tourmalines 
worth 100 gp each). If the altar is defiled or 
damaged, or if anything is removed from it, 
the guardian idol animates to pursue and 
punish the offenders (see below). 

if a sacrifice or donation is properly pre 
pared with the fountain (A) and placed in the 
altar basin, a magic mouth on the idol in the 
alcove makes a hooting noise, summoning the 
occupants of area 214 to receive the worship 
pers. If the altar is improperly handled, the 
idol starts to roll slowly toward the offender, 
issuing forth hissing and hooting noises which 
likewise alert the occupants of area 214. In 
either case they appear in 2-5 rounds. 

The idol is actually a juggernaut (C). It 
can roll over victims (inflicting lOdlO points 
of damage) or reach out in any direction 
with eel heads, tentacles, pincers, and other 
attack forms to six foot range, doing so four 
times each round and inflicting 2-12 points 
of damage in each such attack. This thing is 
not able to turn sharply or reverse direc 
tions unless it first comes to a complete halt. 
For every ten feet it travels it can turn about 
three feet; it must travel 30 feet to make a 90 
degree turn. It is also slow to start; in the 
first round of animation it can move but ten 
feet per round, but gains 1" additional 
movement each round thereafter until its 
maximum 12" rate is achieved. (For exam 
ple, in the ninth round of animation it 
moves at 9" rate.) 

Juggernaut: AC 2, MV 1" to 12", HD 10, hp 

66 , #AT4 and 1, D 2-12 (x4) and 10-100; 

XP 3924 

Each of the gargoyles atop the triangular 
columns is actually a zombie wearing a magi 
cal gargoyle cloak. This garment gives the 



wearer all the characteristics of a gargoyle, 
and even the mentality in this case; thus - 

Gargoyles (4): AC 5MV9"/15", HD4 + 4, 
hp 28 each, #AT 4, D 1-3/1-3/1-6/1-4, 
SA + 1 bonus "to hit" and damage when 
first swooping to attack, SD hit only by 
+ 1 or better magic weapons; XP 305 
each (as if gargoyles) 

Note that the zombies may be Turned nor 
mally by a cleric. If one takes 20 or more 
points of damage from edged weapons or 
fire, consider the cloak destroyed. If the 
creatures are slain without damage to the 
cloaks, subsequent examination shows each 
to be a green-colored zombie. Any charac 
ter donning a gargoyle cloak is able to fly, 
attack, etc. as if a gargoyle, just as did the 
zombies. However, if a wearer keeps a cloak 
on for longer than one turn, apply a 10% 
chance per turn (cumulative) that the 
wearer gains the mind of a gargoyle as well, 
and either attacks or flies away (just as 
would a real gargoyle). Only death or a 
wish returns the victim to normal form. 

The seaweed wall to the south is merely a 
cleverly embroidered but normal drapery. It 
conceals another alcove 10' deep and 20' wide, 
with verdigris-covered bronze doors to the 
south and normal doors to the east and west. 

214. LOUNGE 

Two under-priests are quartered here. They 
attack intruders, calling loudly to alert oth 
ers in area 215 (and possibly areas 220-225). 
Each cleric wears cowled green robes with a 
gold circle on front and back, plate mail 
armor underneath, and carries a shield and 
two hammers. 

Under-priest: AC 1 (plate &. shield), MV 6", 
Level 3 Cleric, hp 21, #AT 1, D 2-5 (ham 
mer); Dexterity 15 (-1 AC bonus 

included); SA spells, XP 168 
First level; command, cure light wounds, 
light 

Second level: hold person 

Under-priest; AC 2 (plate &. shield), MV 6", 
Level 3 Cleric, hp 16, #AT 1, D 2-5 (ham 
mer), SA spells; XP 153 
First level: command, cure light wounds, 
protection from good, sanctuary 
Second level: chant 

Each cleric wears a gold ring fashioned as a 
ten-armed monster; each ring is set with a 
cabochan-cut peridot held in place by the 
monsters tentacles (jewelry value 750 gp). 


64 








This 20 'x 30' room is furnished in rich 
green - rugs, carpets, draperies, furni 
ture, etc. Four bronze pedestals (one in 
each corner of the room) hold green 
globes of some odd sort, which provide a 
greenish illumination for the area. Two 
upholstered armchairs and side tables 
are to the north. The center of the room 
is dominated by a long table with four 
chairs. Upon the table are green vessels 
- a decanter, six goblets, several bowls 
and plates, a basin, and a small box. A 
high desk stands against the west wall 
just south of the door; upon it are a few 
scraps of parchment and writing tools. A 
large wardrobe stands by a door in the 
south wall. 


The light is simply a form of continual light 
spell cast upon/in pieces of green but cheap 
quartz (each worth only 1 gp). 

The small box on the table holds 6 sug 
ared fruits which are coated with a narcotic 
substance. If even one is eaten, it causes 
great intoxication, and two or more cause a 
comatose condition (see Appendix C for 
more details). The decanter holds wine. The 
entire service fills two large sacks and is 
worth 2,000 gp if undamaged, being fash 
ioned from fine malachite. 

A secret compartment in the back of the 
high desk holds a scroll of three cleric spells; 
resist fire, neutralize poison, true seeing. 
The wardrobe holds several unremarkable 
garments and two green robes of watered 
silk, each with golden embroidery showing 
a squid-like creature with ten arms in a cir 
cle. 

The south door opens into a 10 wide, 
30 long room. It contains a pair of beds 
separated by a folding screen. By each bed is 
a small stand, a bronze brazier, a low stool, 
and a locked chest. Each chest holds cloth 
ing, four texts on the Elemental Evil of 
Water (non-magical but worth 250 gp each, 
XP value 25 each), and a few treasures. The 
first chest holds a sack with 87 gp, a bronze 
mace (worth 15 gp), and a gold ring set with 
a rare green pearl (jewelry value 555 gp). 
The second chest has an old crumpled hand 
kerchief (containing 21 pp) and a potion of 
water breathing (2 doses). 

215. SALON 

This is the residence of the canon Belsornig, 
chief cleric of the nearby Water Temple, a 
vile person filled with hubris and wicked 


ness. He uses guile to dupe anyone, strikes 
whenever he has an advantage, and never 
admits anyone to be his better unless his life 
is at stake. He is set on becoming chief cleric 
of the whole Temple when it once more sets 
forth upon a course of open warfare against 
the land above. 

Belsornig is working to subvert the 
humanoids of the Air Temple while threat 
ening their cleric (Kelno, in area 225) - not 
with harm from the Water Temple forces, 
but rather with the machinations of Alrrem 
and the Fire Temple. If captured and ques 
tioned, he reveals that a Greater Temple is 
two levels deeper, and guides adventurers to 
bring harm to its priests, as he sees an 
advantage therein. Of course, he bargains 
to have his own Water Temple spared, and 
never personally accompanies any expedi 
tion to the Greater Temple, except at 
swords' point. 

Belsornig is exceptional, having 15 
Strength ( + 1 damage bonus), 18 Dexterity 
(-4 AC bonus and two-handed combat abil 
ity), and 16 Wisdom ( + 2 saving throw 
bonus vs. mind attacks, and spell bonuses 
included below). In a critical melee he can 
use a mace in his right hand and his rod of 
smiting (see below) in his left, thus attacking 
twice per round. He wears plate mail +1 
and a ring offree action, but does not use a 
shield. If Belsornig hears fighting, he inves 
tigates carefully. If time permits, he places 
resist fire on himself before appearing, and 
may use prayer if his allies are engaged; he 
might prefer to silence an obviously danger 
ous spell caster. He knows, of course, that 
dispel magic can be quite useful against 
opponents obviously enjoying magical ben 
efits. If things look bad, he seeks shelter in 
the Water Temple (area 216). 

Rod of smiting: Note that this + 3 
weapon (base damage ld8) inflicts 8-22 
points of damage to a golem (including a 
juggernaut). It has 14 charges left. Any hit 
on a golem drains a charge, and a "to hit" 
roll of 20 drains a charge but produces triple 
damage (or destroys the golem or jugger 
naut target, using a total of two charges for 
the blow). 

Canon Belsornig: AC -2 (plate mail +1), 
MV 12", Level 6 Cleric, hp 48, #AT 1 or 
2, D 3-8 (mace) or 3-8/4-1 1 (mace and 
rod), SA rod and spells, SD ring offree 
action; XP 988 

First level: command, cure light wounds, 
darkness, light, sanctuary 



Second level: hold person (x2), know align 
ment, resist fire, silence 15' radius 
Third level: dispel magic, prayer 

Belsornig wears a robe of plain green velvet, 
with a gold belt set with lapis and malachite 
(jewelry value 750 gp). In his purse hanging 
from this belt are 21 gp and 14 pp, along 
with an iron key upon which the word 
"D'LYSS" is inscribed with runes. This word 
is the command to stop the juggernaut in 
area 213, and the key opens his personal 
chest. He wears a gold ring with a peridot 
bezel (jewelry value l,000gp). 


This place is swathed in rich green, even 
the ceiling being obscured by gossamer 
green hangings. Tapestries on the walls 
show scenes of undersea cruelty and 
death. A large bronze brazier stands in 
the middle of the floor, sending off curls 
of sweetish fishy-smelling smoke, 
flanked by hanging bronze lamps which 
shed a green glow throughout the room. 
Six plush armchairs are here, each with a 
matching footstool and low "table. On 
each table is a small decanter, a bowl of 
nuts and fruits, and a stemmed cup of 
serpentine. In the center of the west wall 
is a couch of green velvet piled with pil 
lows. A round table before it holds an 
ivory tray, upon which are heaped many 
seashells. An armoire stands to each side 
of the west door. 


The ivory tray is worth 50 gp, but the sea- 
shells have no value. Each decanter, bowl, 
and stemmed cup is worth 2 gp. The hang 
ing lamps contain cheap green quartz 
treated with continual light (worth 1 gp 
each for the gems, but each lamp worth 25 
gp). The brass brazier is worth 30 gp. 

The northern armoire contains a suit of 
plate mail, a shield, a mace, and a green 
cloak. The southern one holds various non 
descript garments, plus a robe of watered 
green silk upon which a ten-armed octopoid 
creature, stitched in gold thread, writhes 
from back to front. Where the tentacles 
reach the breast is a gold circle set with 12 
peridots - four small (each worth 100 gp), 
four medium-sized (each 500 gp), and four 
large (each l,000gp). A hook on one side of 
the cabinet interior supports a censer of 
bronze, coated with verdigris. On the floor 
are 20 blocks of non-magical incense (each 
worth 10 gp). 


65 







The south door opens into another green- 
covered room, 10' wide and 30' long, it 
holds two chairs flanking a table with 32 
gold dishes upon it (worth 1,900 gp for all, 
total weight 800 gp). A desk stands near the 
table, and upon it are writing materials and 
a small tome. This volume deals with the 
secret rituals of Water Evil, but is of no 
value. A bookstand nearby holds six other 
similar works. At the south end of the 
chamber are a large bed, a small stand, and 
a locked bronze chest; a large mirror and a 
trident hang from the wall beside the bed. 

The lock of the chest contains a poisoned 
needle trap. Inside are items of normal 
clothing, a coral box (worth 100 gp) which 
contains 100 tiny seed pearls (worth 10 gp 
each), and a cloak of the manta ray. The tri 
dent is a magical trident of yearning; in its 
handle are a huge aquamarine (worth 5,000 
gp) and a scroll of four cleric spells (purify 
food fk drink, flame strike, part water, con 
trol weather). 

216. THE POOL CHAMBER 

if any cleric or servant of the Water Temple 
has been questioned, the characters know 
that this is the Water Temple. Since this fac 
tion is now the strongest of the four, it is also 
known as the Lesser Temple. 

Note that fire spells of any sort do not 
function herein as long as the pool is alive 
(see below). Furthermore, no magic, evil, 
traps, et al. can be detected here; applicable 
spells seem to work, but detect nothing. The 
only exception is detect lie (see below). 


This large room is fashioned of great 
blocks of polished serpentine, save the 
domed ceiling of polished crystal - 
made to reflect everything in the room in 
a distorted way, concentrating light 
upon the center of the large oval pool of 
water in the center of the chamber. The 
whole place seems to be lit with a blue- 
green light from this pool, and at the 
same time the pool seems to absorb light, 
capturing it in its heart. Pale green 
flames come from eight bronze cressets, 
four on the east wall and four west; the 
flames shed light but not heat. Tapestries 
of vilest sort cover the east and west sec 
tions of the north wall. The south wall 
shows a mosaic of some great ten-armed 
octopoid monster, holding a sacrificial 
victim in each tentacle. The monster is 




fashioned from dark purple tiles, with 
reddish highlights and green orbs. 

The pool is an oval, 20 1 across and 30 ' 
long, set in a basin of small lapis lazuli 
tiles. The crystal-clear water allows 
vision to the very bottom of the basin. 
The edge depth appears to be about four 
feet. The floor slopes steeply to the mid 
dle, to 12 foot depth, where some sort of 
humanoid is chained. You suddenly 
receive a telepathic message! The triton 
is pleading to be released, so that it can 
prevent your deaths when the kraken, 
shown on the wall, materializes and 
attacks, it will appear at any moment - 
so, as many as can, jump into the pool 
and help the triton break its chains! Soon 
it will be too late! 


if a detect lie is used while the thing is speak 
ing, it reveals both the lie and the EVIL of this 
thing. The pool itself is an intelligent evil crea 
ture from the Elemental Plane of Water. Its 
powerful, alien dweomer masks its alignment 
and intent. It speaks telepathically, lies most 
glibly, and is highly persuasive. The enchained 
figure is an illusion, produced by the creature 
(though disbelief has no effect). 

This creatures body is the clear silvery 
substance in the pool; though it seems to be 
water, it is actually a highly corrosive acid. 
A splash inflicts one point of damage, a 
dowsing 1-4 points, and immersion causes 
5-20 points per round, if the thing cannot 
convince the whole party to jump in, it uses 
a suggestion (as the spell) each round on 
individual victims. (Once per week the crea 
ture can employ a limited wish to fulfill 
another creature's desire.) 

If a magic item enters the pool, it must be 
saved for (vs. acid) or be destroyed; a new 
saving throw must be made for each turn or 
fraction thereof. The monster feeds on 
energy (both of life and magic), and when it 
destroys a magic item, it gains any spell or 
spell-like powers of the item! It can produce 
these effects only during the four rounds 
immediately after such an item's destruc 
tion, but can do so in addition to its normal 
suggestion attacks. 

The thing has 100 hp, but cannot be dam 
aged by blows or most spells. Only the fol 
lowing things can affect it: 

cone of cold Paralysis 2-5 rounds 

holy water (1 vial) Damage, 1-4 points 
ice storm Paralysis 1-4 rounds 


lower water 
otiluke's freezing 
sphere 
part water 
purify food Ik drink 
purify water 
water, 1 gallon 


Damage, 4-32 points 

Paralysis 5-8 rounds 
Damage, 3-18 points 
Damage, 5-40 points 
Damage, 10-60 points 
Damage, 1 point 


if the pool creature is slain (XP 8950), the 
crystal dome shatters, inflicting 1-12 points 
of damage to each creature in the room (no 
saving throw). The lapis lazuli basin shat 
ters at the same time, if more than four turns 
are spent searching through the remains of 
the shattered basin, 1-8 pieces of value are 
found each turn thereafter, to a maximum of 
four turns (i.e. 4-32 pieces in all; base value 
1,000 gp each, maximum 5,000 gp each. 
Count each piece found as 100 gp weight, 
500 gp volume. 

If the crystals from the dome are exam 
ined, a coral scrollcase (worth 50 gp, previ 
ously hidden behind the dome) is found. It 
contains a parchment with the following 
message: 

On three, in six, lies nine - but none 

shall ever see 

Vile Good cloaked by Fair Evil for eternity. 

Will you answer, Answerer? Where is 
", your power, pray? 

With the whelp of Mitrik and there until 

doomsday. 


217. TRIANGULAR CHAMBER 


An owlbear is kept chained here to guard 
against unwelcome visitors - especially 
agents of the Fire Temple. As soon as any 
creature steps into the area, the owlbear 
begins hissing, clacking its beak, and sound 
ing its strange hooting roars. The noise 
draws the keeper from area 218 to investi 
gate. The owlbear attacks fiercely, barring 
any passage through its chamber, until slain 
or forced back by its keeper. (This monster 
is not well-fed.) 

Owlbear: AC 5, MV 12", HD 5 + 2, hp 38, 
#AT 3, D 1-6/1-6/2-12, SA "to hit" roll 
of 18 or more on claw attack means hug 
for additional 2-16 damage; XP 529 


This area was once of some importance, 
for its walls are plastered and painted, 
and evidence of carpeting can be seen in 


66 








the corners, though such is now a ruin. 
The floor is covered with litter, filth, 
bones, and possibly much more. The 
walls are dirty and stained, with great 
chunks of plaster pulled off and gouge 
marks everwhere else below ten foot 
height. The room stinks. An eight-foot- 
long chain is bolted to the center of the 
floor. 


A thorough search of the mess produces 3- 
30 each of gp, ep, sp, and cp. 

218. ABANDONED STOREROOM 

This room is the lair of the owlbear's 
"keeper" (tormentor), a troll. It goes to area 
217 upon hearing noises of intruders, after 
first grabbing its 12' long fauchard-fork. If 
intruders are led by anyone wearing the 
green robes of the Water Temple (or if the 
entire group is so garbed, of course), the 
troll shoves the owlbear to the northwest 
corner and allows passage - making sure, 
afterwards, that they report to room 222, 
either accompanying or following them. If 
intruders do not identify themselves, or if 
any wear robes of the Fire Temple, the troll 
looses the owlbear and attacks itself, using 
the pole arm at long range (and gaining a 
+ 2 Strength bonus to damage, included 
below) but shifting to the usual claw-claw- 
bite routine for closer melee if necessary. 
This troll is on fairly good terms with its 
counterpart in area 203, as well as with its 
fellows in area 219. 

Troll: AC4, MV 12", HD 6+ 6, hp40, #AT 
3, D 5-8/5-8/2-12, SA fauchard-fork 
(range 12', D 3-10), SD regenerates (3 hp 
per round starting 3 rounds after being 
damaged); XP845 


This 20 x 30" chamber is a mess in every 
respect. It reeks of troll, is covered with 
dirt and rubbish, and is littered with bits 
of decaying meat and many bones, 
strewn haphazardly about the place. 
Some shelves remain on the walls, and a 
few boxes, crates, barrels, and bales are 
intact, still standing along the walls 
where they were placed - who knows 
how many years ago! There is nothing of 
value in the place. 


If the intact containers are searched, one 



barrel is found to contain drinkable wine. A 
sack of mouldering grain in the northeast 
corner also contains a hidden leather sack, 
with 48 pp, 84 gp, and 109 ep. 

219. ROOM OF BONES 

This is the quarters of a troll chief named 
Oohlgrist, an honored guest of the two 
trolls nearby (in areas 203 and 218), who 
serve opposing factions of the Temple. Each 
seeks to win Oohlgrist's favor, for he can 
bring a score or more of great trolls to align 
with the one preferred. This room was espe 
cially decorated for him, and he is brought 
choice victims for dinners. Though evil and 
cruel, Oohlgrist is wily and cunning. He has 
no intention of risking himself or his fol 
lowers unnecessarily. He intends to milk the 
rivalry to the utmost, then joining neither 
side unless certain that those involved can 
triumph without any great struggle involv 
ing him or his trolls. 


Something has taken considerable pains 
to decorate this disused storeroom. The 
walls are covered with a plastering of 
excrement and bones, to form both pat 
terns and shelf-like bone ledges. Skulls 
leer from these shelves - human, 
humanoid, dwarven, and various sorts 
of other creatures as well. The floor is a 
conglomerate of bones and ordure. A 
large armchair and crude table of sorts, 
each fashioned from bones, stand in the 
northwest corner. In the southeast cor 
ner is a heap of torn cloth, leather scraps, 
bits of tapestries, and pieces of rugs. 
Suddenly the pile moves, and something 
rises - a huge troll! 


Troll chief: AC 2, MV 9", HD 6 + 6, hp 50, 
#AT 3, D 6-9/6-9/4-14. SA attacks as if 
10 HD, SD regenerates (3 hp per round 
starting 3 rounds after being damaged), 
wears ring of fire resistance; XP 1050 

Oohlgrist wears bone armor (worth a gem 
in trade with a troll or ogre) for a -2 AC 
bonus (included above). He also wears a 
ring of fire resistance on the little finger of 
his left hand, a necklace of gold with four 
small rubies given to him by the priests of 
the Fire Temple (jewelry value 4,750 gp), 
and a jeweled belt given him by the priests 
of the Water Temple (silver with four nice 
emeralds, jewelry value 5,250 gp). In a 
pouch at his belt is a necklace of adaptation, 



also a gift from the Water Temple followers. 
(DM, be sure that you make saving throws 
for these items if Oohlgrist is attacked by 
magical means which could damage them.) 
A potion of extra healing is concealed in a 
small leather pouch under the pile of old 
cloth. 

If confronted by a party demonstrably 
capable of killing him (and thus obviously a 
fair match for the various Temple factions), 
he tries to parley. (Of course he'd rather eat 
humans than talk with them, but....) Being 
a tribal leader, Oohlgrist knows rudimen 
tary Common. His first offer is to spare the 
characters' lives if they pay ransom of gems 
or many precious coins. Failing that, he sim 
ply tells them to "go away, and Great Ugly 
Troll Chief spare you"; he has other things 
to do, and isn't hungry. If that ploy fails, he 
offers his ruby necklace, and then his belt of 
emeralds (but never any of his magic items). 

Last, he volunteers (so to speak) to aid the 
party in overcoming one of the Elemental 
Temples, and will settle for as little as one- 
quarter of the loot gained thereby (but first 
asks for half). Oohlgrist actually fights well 
if he perceives no treachery, and if the char 
acters fight as well. If they try to betray him, 
or expect him to bear the brunt of the fight 
ing, he immediately switches sides. Oohl 
grist will not cooperate for any extended 
period of time. If the characters are weak 
ened, he turns on them. 

220. SIDE ROOM 

Four bugbear guards are stationed here, in 
service to the Water Temple. If they hear 
fighting in the area, they rush out to see 
what's happening, arriving in only 1 round. 
Each wears a green vest-like shirt over 
armor. Each carries 3-12 gp, 3-12 ep, 3-12 
sp, and 3-12 cp. 

Bugbears (4): AC 5, MV 9", HD 3 +1, hp 
17, 14, 13, 11, #AT 1, D 1-8 (military 
fork), SA surprise on 1-3; XP 203, 191, 
187, 179 


This small room was evidently meant for 
minor functionaries of the Water Temple, 
for shreds of green draperies still hang 
from the walls, and part of a dirty green 
carpet remains in the southwest corner. 
Four heaps of material, evidently used as 
sleeping mats, are evenly spaced on the 
floor. A long bench stands by the east 


67 








wall, under which is a small keg. A large 
barrel stands near the north door, with a 
lumpy sack nearby. Several green cloaks 
hang from wall pegs. 


The small keg contains wine of average 
quality; the large barrel holds water. The 
sack contains some bad-smelling meat, a 
large wheel of cheese, and several loaves of 
coarse black bread. Under one of the cloaks 
hangs a battle axe. 

221. INNER CHAMBER 

The overseer of the guards of the Water 
Temple is an ogre, who lives here. He is lazy 
and rather stupid, and comes only if sum 
moned; but due to his horrible temper, the 
bugbears hate to summon him. He wears a 
padded jack sewn with seashells, and uses a 
green drape as a cape. He wears his hair in a 
topnot held in place by three silver pins, 
each set a with pearl (each worth 110 gp). 

Ogre: AC 3, MV 9", HD 4 +1, hp 29, #AT 
1, D 9-18 (3d4 + 6, with huge trident); XP 
235 


This room is much like the one to the 
south. A pair of beds are shoved 
together, with a heavy chest beside them. 
A large table and chair are the only other 
furnishings. Three barrels stand along 
the south wall. 


The chest is secured with a large padlock, 
which can be broken by four blows from a 
mace or hammer. Inside are various items of 
apparel, a brass candlestick (worth 1 ep), a 
rusted saw, 419 cp, 282 sp, 23 ep, 133 gp, 
and 4pp. 

222. ROOM, 20 x 20 

Four bugbears are quartered here, as part of 
the guard of the Water Temple. They cannot 
hear fighting elsewhere, and must be sum 
moned to leave this area. Each wears a 
sleeveless overshirt of green and carries 4-16 
cp, 4-16 ep, and 4-16 gp. Their chieftain is 
quartered in the small room (1 O' square) 
immediately to the north, and carries 6 ep, 
16 gp, 10 pp, and 4 hematites worth 10 gp 
each. 

The bugbear chieftain is secretly treating 
with the bugbears who serve the Air Temple 
(those in areas 223-226) because he and his 
fellows know of the offer regarding the 



trolls (203 and 218-219), and plan to defect 
en masse to the Air Temple if the Water Tem 
ple should win the service of the troll chief 
tain. If he sees a party in the company of a 
troll, he executes his defection plan. (Natu 
rally, the whole thing is encouraged by 
Kelno - area 225 - who is promising more 
pay, more food, and less work.) 

if adventurers attempt to parley with the 
bugbears, the chieftain will most certainly 
defect from the Water Temple forces if 
offered sufficient reward - coins, coins, 
other treasure, spared lives.... All of the 
bugbears know of the secret door in the pas 
sage to the west, and reveals it if given suf 
ficient reason to do so. 

Bugbear guards (4): AC 5, MV 9 ", HD 3+1, 
hp 18, 15, 13, 9, #AT 1, D 2-8 (glaive- 
guisarme), SA surprise on 1-3; XP 207, 
195, 187, 171 

Bugbear chieftain: AC 4, MV 9", HD 4, hp 
25, #AT 1, D 2-8 (morning star), SA + 1 
bonus "to hit" and damage, surprise on 
1-3; XP 235 

222a. STAIRWAY 

An unlocked normal door here leads to a small 
landing, from which descends a dusty stairway 
leading directly to area 312 (Dungeon Level 
Three), a dangerous area. Review that area 
description before you continue. 

223. JUMBLED ROOM 


This 20 'x 30 chamber contains many odds 
and ends of furniture - three wooden 
chairs, two armchairs, a large table, two 
small tables, a desk, three couches, a cot, 
and countless cushions and pillows. 


Six bugbears herein have accumulated these 
"treasures". If attacked, they tip over the tables 
to form a barricade, gaining a -2 AC bonus vs. 
missiles or -1 AC bonus in melee. Each is clad in 
gray kilt and cloak, the latter with a large black 
square sewn upon it to indicate the personal ret 
inue of the Air Temple. Each has a pair of spears 
to throw before melee; each carries 1-4 pp and 
2-8 gp. If attacked from the west, they alert the 
occupants of area 224. They will readily receive 
the bugbears from the Water Temple, of course, 
if these cowards indicate their willingness to 
switch sides. 

Bugbears (6); AC 5, MV 9", HD 3 + 1, hp 
19, 16, 14, 13, 13, 12, #AT 1, D 1-8 (bat- 



tie axe), SA 2 spears each (D 1-6, ranges 
l"/2 M /3"), surprise on 1-3; XP 211, 199, 
191, 187, 187, 183 


Old wall hangings of gray, ivory, and 
white cover the north and south walls. 
The east and west walls are plastered and 
painted with murals showing the evil of 
Elemental Air. The four torch brackets 
are empty. A small barrel is near the east 
door, and a large cask by the west. 


The small barrel contains beer, the larger, 
water. In the lining of one of the upholstered 
chairs is a ring, lost there long ago (jewelry 
value 700 gp). 

224. ROOM 20' x 20' 

Four bugbears, the personal guards of the 
cleric Kelno (area 225), are on duty here. Each 
wears a scale naail jack, gray kilt and cape, 
and has 1-6 pp, 1-6 gp, 1-6 ep, and 1-6 sp. Each 
is armed with bardiche and mace, the latter to 
be hurled at foes before melee. They are 
accompanied by two gnolls who also wear 
gray kilts and capes, but over chain mail 
jacks. These creatures are tolerated well due to 
(a) Kelno's demand that they be accepted, (b) 
their own toughness, and (c) their fast and 
accurate use of longbows. Each has 18 arrows 
and a longbow, to be used while trying to 
avoid close combat. Each carries 3-12 gp, 3-12 
ep, and 3-12 sp. 

Bugbears (4): AC 4, MV 9", HD 3 + 1, hp 20, 
17, 15, 11, #AT I, D 2-8 (bardiche), SA 1 
mace each for hurling (D 2-7, range 0"/l"/ 
2"), surprise on 1-3; XP215, 203, 195, 179 

Gnolls (2): AC 4, MV 9", HD 2, hp 16, 14, 
#AT 1 or 2, D 1-8 (battle axe) or I-6/1-6 
(longbow); XP 68, 64 


This plastered, painted chamber was 
probably one of the many guest rooms of 
the Temple. It now holds a cot, two 
sofas, some cushions, a small table, and 
a battered cabinet. The carpeting on the 
floor is of a gray hue, indicating connec 
tion to the Air Temple. 


Inside the cabinet are some old clothes, five 
wax candles, a quart of honey, and a hand 
axe. The small room to the south, quarters 
of the gnolls, has nothing in it but two piles 
of old tapestries and rags (bedding) and four 
spears standing in a far corner. 


68 











225. GRIM CHAMBER 

This is the residence of Kelno, the only 
cleric of the Air Temple-his apprentices 
having been slain by rival factions. He is bit 
ter and full of great hatred for both the Fire 
and Water Temples. Kelno bargains with 
anyone if he sees profit for himself and harm 
to these rivals. He has spent all his funds on 
hiring and bribing bugbears, for he hopes to 
amass a sufficient force to turn the tables on 
the otherTemples. 

Kelno wears chain mail + 1 and a cloak of 
protection +1 (which affects only his sav 
ing throws, when worn with magical 
armor), and wields a mace + 1. Though he 
carries a dagger of venom with one dose of 
virulent poison (-2 penalty to victim s sav 
ing throw), he is saving it for either Alrrem 
(room 205c) or Belsornig (room 215). His 
Strength is 15 ( + 1 damage bonus) and Dex 
terity 17 (-3 AC bonus). (All bonuses are 
included in the following statistics.) If hard 
pressed, he uses his darkness 15' radius 
spell to escape into the concealed passage to 
the east (area 209a), trying to reach corridor 
209. If enemies are in pursuit, he flees down 
the staircase to the lower dungeon level, for 
he knows portions of that area fairly well. 

Kelno the Prefect: AC 1 (chain mail +1), 
MV 12", Level 5 Cleric, hp 32, #AT 1, D 
4-9 (mace -/-1), SA spells, SD cloak + 1; 
XP 520 

First level: command, cure light wounds, 
protection from good, purify food 
drink, sanctuary 

Second level: hold person, know alignment, 
resist fire (x2), silence 15' radius 
Third level: cause blindness 


The entire room is gray-carpeting, 
plaster, wall hangings, furnishings, 
etc.-and spartan. Lamps of grayish 
metal on a small table and a wall shelf 
dimly light the room; a pair of uphol 
stered chairs are by the table. On the 
table are some pewter dishes and a plain 
crock half-filled with mead. The shelves 
hold some foodstuffs, a few scrolls and 
books, and several human and demi- 
human skulls. A narrow bed is in the 
northeast corner, with a small stand 
beside it. 


The scrolls and books are of no value. 
The wardrobe holds worthless garments 
and a cassock of silver cloth, the latter 


worked with crystal beads and jet to form 
black squares with shining centers. This is 
the ceremonial robe of the high cleric of the 
Air Temple, worth 1,500 gp. 

A drapery conceals the exit to the east, in 
that passage is a flowing fountain, set into 
the wall, and the passage beyond is piled 
with arms and armor: 

11 suits of armor (bugbear size, 
worth 50 gp each to bugbears) 

4 battle axes 

2 fauchard-forks 

4 glaive-guisarmes 

7 maces (heavy) 

8 morning stars 

5 quivers (20 arrows each) 

16 spears (heavy) 

1 sword, bastard 

Near this pile is a locked chest, trapped 
with a poison needle. Inside are only 11 gp, 
28 ep, and 176 sp. 

226. KITCHEN 

Six bugbears are staying here, new recruits 
of the Air Temple. Kelno (225) has them stay 
here in the kitchen where he feeds his troops, 
and harrangues them about overthrowing the 
enemies of Elemental Air Evil so his rivals 
won't learn about his added forces. If sum 
moned, the bugbears gladly fight with their 
fellows against any opponents. Each has been 
given a gray cloak and 20 gp; each also has 1 -6 
ep, 1-6 sp, and 1-6 cp. 

Here also are four goblins, kept as ser 
vants. They are quasi-slaves, though their 
masters have promised them a small share 
of the expected spoils, good fun torturing 
prisoners, and even a place in the fighting 
forces of the Air Temple. Each goblin has 
only 2-5 cp. 

Bugbears (6): AC 5, MV 9", HD 3+1, hp 
17, 14, 13, 13, 11, 10, #AT 1, D 1-8 (bat 
tle axe), SA surprise on 1-3; XP 203, 191, 
187, 187, 179, 175 

Goblins (4): AC 6, MV 6", HD 1-1, hp 6, 5, 
4, 3, #AT 1, D 1-6 (shortsword); XP 16, 
15, 14, 13 


This place is dirty and full of litter, but 
has been used of late. Ashes are in both 
fireplaces on the west wall. The long 
trestles which run down the center of the 
room are filled with earthenware dishes 


and food scraps. Four barrels stand 
along the south wall. Some large black 
ish sausages are strung over the ceiling 
arches. Heaps of old rags and skins are 
piled helter-skelter in all the corners; this 
place is apparently used as a camp as 
well as a mess hall. 

The pantry area to the northeast like 
wise shows evidence of use. The shelves 
are filled with unappetizing foodstuffs, 
plus sacks of millet, beets, and meal. 


Two barrels contain water, one beer, and 
one wine. No treasure is here other than that 
carried by the inhabitants. 

227. HALL OF TRIUMPHAL EVIL 


This huge, echoing hall was evidently 
once the scene of great revels celebrating 
the triumphs of the Temple. The floor of 
the place is littered with skeletons, 
skulls, and bones of humans and various 
humanoids. Here and there are parts of 
broken chairs, stools, tables, benches, 
sideboards, buffets, cabinets, and cases. 
Much of the wreckage has probably been 
carted off for firewood. Tapestries and 
trophies still remain on the walls in 
spots. The former show scenes of raid 
ing, looting, pillate, and rapine; trophies 
include mummified heads, torn battle 
standards, hides and skins, battered 
shields, sundered armor, and a broken 
broadsword. Dozens of empty cressets 
and sconces line the walls. The broad 
steps in the middle of the north wall are 
of dull black stone, and the descending 
stair seems most depressing and 
horrible-though passable. 


Nothing here has any notable value. The 
runes of the permanent antipathy effect 
(found on the main Temple entrance, area 
210 , etal.) are here scribed on the steps, 20 
feet from the corridor. No creature of evil 
alignment can even enter this stairway; no 
one having failed a previous saving throw 
against this effect can descend the stair more 
than ten feet. Anyone succeeding at all pre 
vious saving throws against like dweomers 
must again save here (and again with a -2 
penalty) or be blocked. Furthermore, the 
same effect is placed on a pair of huge 
bronze doors at the base of this staircase 
(area 340), which are triple-chained and 
triple-barred with cold iron. 


69 








227a. STAIRWAY 

The normal door on the south wall of the 
corridor bounding area 228 leads to a small 
dusty alcove, to the west of which descends 
a 10 wide stairway leading to area 328a 
(Dungeon Level Three). 

228. PRISON ROOM 

The gaoler, an ogre, is dozing on his bedding 
in the southeast corner of this area. He needs 
one round to awaken and rise for a fight. His 
assistant, a bugbear, is sitting at a table along 
the diagonal wall (to the northeast), drinking 
beer to wash down his recent repast. 

Neither of these humanoids is aligned 
with any Elemental Temple; their orders 
come "from below", and are delivered by an 
ettin. The leaders of the various Temples 
know this and are afraid to violate the neu 
trality of the place. Each Elemental Temple 
has a cell here to hold prisoners; that of the 
Earth (southwest) and Air (northwest) are 
empty. The cells of the Water Temple (A) 
and Fire Temple (B) hold prisoners. 

The bugbear wears a chain mail shirt, and 
has a purse with 3 pp, 4 gp, and 18 sp. A 
"large dagger" at his belt is a shortsword 
+ 1, but he uses a flail in combat. The ogre 
is unarmored and uses a club (gaining a + 6 
damage bonus, due to Strength). He carries 
39 gp and 28 ep in his purse, along with the 
keys to the cells. 

Bugbear; AC 3, MV 9", HD 3 + 1, hp 20, 
#AT 1, D 2-7 (flail), SA surprise on 1-3; 
XP 215 

Ogre: AC 4, MV 9", HD 4 + 1, hp 19, #AT 
1, D 7-12 (club); XP 185 


An outsided table and two matching 
chairs stand in the northeast, along the 
diagonal wall. A cask and several leather 
jacks are on the table, amongst small 
hunks of cheese and dried meat; some 
food scraps have fallen to the floor. 
Nearby is a barrel and a huge pot. Brack 
ets and torches line the walls, but only 3 
contain torches, none lit. A great pile of 
hides and skins is in the southeast 
corner-a bed of sorts. 

Four bronze-bound oaken doors, each 
with a heavy bar, padlock, and small 
barred port, mark the cells. 


The cask contains beer; the barrel, water, 



and the pot, some sort of gruel of grain and veg 
etables. One skin in the ogre's bed-pile is a giant 
weasel pelt, worn and torn, worth l,200gp. 

Each cell is about eight feet square; see 
below for prisoner descriptions (cells 228a 
and 228b). The prisoners of the Water Tem 
ple are planned for sacrifices to conjure up a 
major demon, with which they may over 
come all of the other Elemental Temples 
once and for all. The prisoners of the Fire 
Temple are slated for death to gain the pro 
tection of a powerful efreeti, who may aid 
them against the Water Temple. Both groups 
will be very displeased (to say the least) if 
their captive sacrifices are freed. 

228a. CELL OF THE WATER TEMPLE 

This cell holds four elves. If freed, they 
ask to be shown the route out so they can 
immediately return to their homeland, but 
express great gratitude and promise rewards 
for their rescuers. Two elves are normal, but 
two are Noble-CountessTrillahi of Celene 
and her consort, Sir Juffer. 

Elves, normal (2): AC 9, MV 12", HD 1 + 1, 
hp 7, 6, no weapons; Dexterity 15 each; 
XP 21, 20 

Countess Tillahi of Celene; AC 6, MV 12", 
Level 5/4 Fighter/Magic-User, hp 22, no 
current weapons or spells, Dexterity 18; 
XP 651 

Sir Juffer: AC 8, MV 12", Level 4/4 Cleric/ 
Ranger, hp 28, no current weapons, no 
spells castable (due to curse upon him), 
Dexterity 16; XP 468 

Rescuers are asked for their names and 
places of residence; each will receive 100 pp 
5-8 weeks later (XP given at that time), in 
addition, the leader of the rescuing party 
will receive a suit of human-sized elfin 
chainmail (XP 200), and the most gallant 
party member will be sent a ring crafted of 
unicorn horn and enchanted with perma 
nent sympathy, affecting unicorns only (XP 
value 500). If the wearer becomes evil or 
purposely harms any unicorn, the ring 
drops off unnoticed and is forever lost. All 
gifts are directed to individuals, and cannot 
be redistributed. 

228b. CELL OF THE FIRE TEMPLE 

This cell holds three human males. One is 
a brigand (HD 2, AL N) who was caught 



taking several gems and deserting, and so 
has been beaten and imprisoned to await 
sacrifice. He gladly joins adventurers in any 
endeavors that allow him to kill servants of 
the Fire Temple and bring him loot. The 
other two prisoners are merchants (Level 0 
non-combatants) from the Nulb area. 

Brigand: AC 10, MV 12", Fighter 2, hp 15 
S 12 1 13 W 12 D 14 Co 16 Ch 10 

229. STORAGE CHAMBER 


This place is filled with broken contain 
ers of all sorts. The littered mess on the 
floor shows that there has been some 
fairly recent traffic, probably to carry off 
any remaining foodstuffs. 


230. GARBAGE ROOM 


This plastered and painted chamber, 
probably a secluded place for relaxation 
when the Temple was in its heyday, is 
now filled with rubbish. The room is a 
heap of rotting, stinking garbage, offal, 
dung, and who knows what else; bones 
and skulls are visible here and there. Part 
of a bronze-bound coffer of some sort 
can be seen near the middle of a large pile 
of refuse in the center of the room. 


An otyugh lurks here, because the eating 
is good (with occasional fresh appetizers, 
when wandering creatures become too curi 
ous). It awaits at the center of the large cen 
tral pile, and attacks if anyone goes beyond 
four feet of the entrance. 

Otyugh: AC 3, MV 6", HD 6, hp 32, #AT 3, 
D 1-8/1-8/2-5, SA disease, SD never sur 
prised; XP 956 

The bugbears to the north (area 231-233) 
know of this monster and avoid it, having 
already lost one of their number to its appe 
tite. Being a good garbage disposal as well, 
they do not wish to kill it. 

The coffer contains a scroll of seven 
magic-user spells: friends, magic missile, 
knock, mirror image, web, slow, rary's 
mnemonic enhancer. Under the central 
"nest" of the otyugh is a gold platter (worth 
300 gp), 10-40 of each coin type (cp, sp, ep, 
gp, pp), and a platinum bracelet (worth 
1,000 gp) set with four opals (each worth 
l.OOOgp). 


70 









231. ROOM OF THE ELEMENTS 

Four bugbears are on guard here. At the 
time of the party's approach, one may (60% 
chance) be watching through a small port in 
the north door. Assuming that the party is 
approaching by way of the outer corridor, 
the bugbears then cannot be surprised; if the 
party continues west, the guards alert those 
in area 232. Each bugbear wears black 
armor, indicating that they are in service to 
the overall Temple (aloof from the individ 
ual Elemental factions and, therefore, the 
other bugbears in this dungeon level). Each 
carries a spear, to be hurled before melee, 
and each has 2-12 gp, 2-12 ep, and 2-12 sp. 

Bugbears (4): AC 5, MV 9", HD 3+1, hp 
13, 12, 11, 11, #AT 1, D 1-8 (battle axe), 
SA 1 spear each (D 1-6, ranges l"/2"/ 
3"), surprise on 1-3; XP 187, 183, 179, 
179 


The walls of this small room are covered 
with scenes showing all four principles of 
Elemental Evil in their most horrible and 
disgusting forms. Some battered and 
torn furnishings also indicate that this 
place was probably once a sitting room 
or lounge for some high Temple official. 
The wall sconces are of bronze, as is the 
wall basin set in a hemispherical alcove 
in the east wall. A small table, two 
chairs, a couch, and a broken cabinet are 
also in the room. 


232. SALON 

Seven bugbears, males in service to the 
overall Temple (and thus clad in black) are 
quartered here. With them are six females, 
who do not fight unless the males are obvi 
ously in trouble. All 13 bugbears will lay an 
ambush if alerted by the guards in area 231, 
and will summon those in 233 to help. 

Bugbears (7 male): AC 5, MV 9", HD 3 + I, 
hp 19, 16, 15, 15, 13, 12, 9, #AT 1, D 2-7 
(flail), SA surprise on 1-3; XP 211, 199, 
195, 195, 187, 183, 171 

Bugbears (6 female): AC 6, MV 9", HD 2, 
hp 13, 10, 9, 8, 8, 8, #AT 1, D 2-8 (morn 
ing star); XP 70, 64, 62, 60 (x3) 

Each male has 2-12 gp, 2-12 ep, and 2-12 
sp. Each female has 1-6 ep and 2-12 sp. 


This 30 1 x 40' room was once quite splen 
did, if its wall hangings, carpet remnants, 
and battered furnishings are any gauge. 
Cressets and sconces of bronze line the 
walls. Four small tables, six chairs, two 
couches, and two sideboards are here, as 
well as several boxes and chests. A large 
iron pot hangs from a bronze chain in the 
middle of the room (suspended from the 
place some filagreed lamp once hung) over 
a charcoal fire in a bronze bowl, its original 
purpose unknown. 


The boxes and chests hold only old cloth 
ing, food, and Junk. The iron pot contains a 
stew of questionable composition. 

The door to the south leads into a 10' x 
20 ' room which is filled with various poor 
but edible foodstuffs, some meats and 
cheeses, and barrels of grain, flour, biscuits, 
beer, vinegar, wine, and salt. 

233. SIDE CHAMBER 

The leader of the bugbears and his lieu 
tenant occupy this room with three females 
(who are comely, as bugbears go- though 
they do not go far in that direction). All are 
clad in black. The leader and lieutenant are 
unusually strong, gaining damage bonuses 
of + 2 and + 1 (respectively) with any held 
or hurled weapon; each carries a spear in 
battle, to be hurled before engaging with 
other weapons. The females are aggressive, 
and fight with the males. 

The largest male wears a gold chain from 
which depends a golden skull emblem (Jew 
elry value 175 gp), and carries a pouch con 
taining 23 gp, 15 pp, and 6 bits of turquoise 
(each worth 10 gp). The lieutenant carries 3 
pp, 14 gp, 5 ep, and 19 sp. Each female has 
1-6 gp, 1-6 ep, 1-6 sp, and 1-6 cp, and the 
largest also wears a silver earring with a 
mounted jasper gem (worth 100 gp). 

Bugbear leader: AC 3, MV 9", HD 4, hp 30, 
#AT 1, D 4-10 (bastard sword), SA hurl 
spear (D 1-6, ranges l"/2"/3"), surprise 
on 1-3; XP 255 

Bugbear lieutenant: AC 4, MV 9", HD 4, hp 
25, #AT 1, D 3-9 (bardiche), SA hurl 
spear, surprise on 1-3; XP 235 

Bugbear females (3); AC 5, MV 9", HD 2 +1, 
hp 15, 13, 12, #AT 1, Dl-8 (battle axe), SA 
surprise on 1-3; XP 125, 119, 115 



This 20' square room shows signs of 
having been the sleeping chamber of 
some personage of importance. The 
walls are plastered and bear murals, 
albeit the plaster is now broken and 
stained and most of the painting is 
ruined. Rugs are still on the floor, and a 
huge bed stands in the southwest corner. 
Another heap of bedding and pillows 
occupies the northwest corner. A cabinet 
stands beside the bed, along with a small 
table, a large wardrobe, and a brazier. 
Two lamps hang from ceiling chains, and 
four sconces adorn the walls. 


The wardrobe is stuffed with old cloth 
ing, some tapestries (one of which is worth 
350 gp), a sack of food, 5 bottles of wine, 
and miscellaneous Junk. 

234. STORAGE CHAMBER 

A su-monster lairs here, living amidst the 
stone flying buttresses supporting the roof 
of this large room. It is near the south end, 
and swings down to attack anyone who 
comes within ten feet of the south wall. It is 
a huge old male which recently migrated to 
this level from that below, having escaped 
its captors who kept it chained as a guard 
beast. Its last kill was a goblin, before that a 
bugbear, and its first was a half-ore; only 
their unbroken skulls remain to tell the tale. 
The su-monster has gone hungry for some 
time now, as the Temple servants enter in 
groups and with their weapons pointed 
upwards. The creature has no treasure. 

Su-monster: AC 6, MV 9", HD 5 + 5, hp 41, 
#AT 5, Dl-4 (x4)/2-8, SA psionics; XP 471 


This oddly shaped chamber is crammed 
with containers of all sorts-large clay 
jars, boxes, barrels, crates, chests, sacks, 
casks, bales, bags, hampers, and others. 
Some are obviously broken or empty, 
but many seem full. Bales contain black 
cloth and some finished garments 
(cloaks, capes, kilts, etc.). Scores of 
arrows, quarrels, javelins, spears, and 
several dozen hand weapons are in the 
10' x 30' alcove to the northeast. At the 
south end of the place are boxes and sev 
eral huge pottery jars, but near them are 
three humanoid skulls and a few bones. 


71 








The alcove contains nothing magical. The 
many containers hold basic foodstuffs- 
meal, grain, flour, salt, dried and salted 
meats, sausages, cheese, biscuits, nuts, 
dried fruit, wine, ale, beer, and others. 

235. ROOM, 20' x 20' 


The door to this chamber is broken, sun 
dered from its hinges and lying in pieces 
on the floor. The room beyond is a 
shambles-several parts of skeletons, 
broken furniture, and charred cloth and 
wood. Shredded wall coverings also 
show signs of fire. 


Nothing here is hidden or of value. 

236. CISTERN CHAMBER 


This oddly shaped chamber is bisected 
by a curving wall of well-dressed, mor 
tared stones. The wall is about four feet 
tall, and to the south side of it is water, 
high enough to almost flow over the top. 
Water trickles in from several places 
along the east, south, and west walls; 
overflow gravitates to floor drains even 
as you watch. 


Careful examination of the walls and 
floor within the cistern discovers that the 
stones are covered with some form of algae, 
apparently quite slimy and presumably slip 
pery. The floor of the cistern immediately 
south of the retaining wall is four feet lower 
than that in the room, and slopes down to 
the south about two feet for every five; 
thus, at the far south end, the cistern is 
about 15 feet deep. The overflow drains 
carry the water to the dungeon level below. 

Anyone trying to stand on the slippery 
cistern floor slips on the slimy growth (no 
saving throw) and slides to the lowest part 
of the cistern, drowning in 3-5 rounds unless 
rescued or light enough to float. In that 
deepest portion is a large round slime- 
covered object, which is a shield + 2. 

237. STORAGE CHAMBER 


This place evidently once held many 
sorts of supplies; much of the foodstuffs 
are now scattered and ruined, rotting on 
the floor. Broken containers are tossed 
about, mixed with many bones. 


Nothing here is hidden or of value. 

238. PADLOCKED DOOR 


This heavy oaken door is secured by a 
large padlock, apparently used with 
some frequency as it seems well-oiled. 


The lock can be picked or broken open 
the latter requiring 30 points of damage. 


The room is 20' square. Several large 
hampers stand along the south wall. 
Propped along the other walls and scat 
tered around the floor are eight shields 
and many human-sized suits of armor- 
3 plate, 2 banded, 1 splinted, 6 chain, 3 
scale, and 1 of ring mail. 


Nothing here is magical. All the items 
herein have been taken from various intruders 
and dungeon adventurers; some pieces are 
found to bear familiar smithy marks, personal 
identification labels (ofvictims now deceased 
and missing from their abodes in towns near 
and far), and other signs of previous care. All 
items are in fair to good condition. In the ham 
pers are the following: 

1 suit chain mail armor, halfling- 
sized (worth 60 gp) 

1 suit plate mail armor, dwarf-sized 
(worth 350 gp) 

8 backpacks (leather) 

14 holy water vials, full 

2 lanterns, bullseye 

3 lanterns, hooded 

1 set lockpicks 

2 mallets (wood) 

2 mapcases (leather) 

1 mirror, silver 

4 mirrors, steel 

17 parchment sheets 

6 pouches, small 

5 pouches, large 

4 ropes (each a 50 l coil) 

5 sacks, small 

2 sacks, large 
52 spikes (iron) 

6 tinderboxes 

239. STOREROOM 


This large chamber is evidently used for 
storing wood and lumber. Stacks of fire 
wood stand near the entrance, planks 
and beams at the west end. Just inside the 
entry are several large lumpy sacks. 


The wood is fairly new, and this place is 
in regular use. The sacks are filled with 
charcoal. 

240.)UNKROOM 

Entry into this room is seen by a guard in 
area 241 (q.v.), who is watching through a 
slight tear in the hanging on the south wall. 


This place is filled with old furniture, 
mostly wardrobes, cabinets, armoires, 
and chests. Two chairs, a stool, a small 
table, and a couch are in the southeast 
corner. A shabby carpet is on the floor, 
and various types of hangings adorn the 
walls. The place is a hodgepodge of junk, 
obviously altered since the overthrow of 
the Temple. 


Examination of the various chests, ward 
robes, etc. reveals all sorts of clothing- 
merchants' garments, laborers' clothing, 
farmers' and seafarers' garb, scribes' robes, 
womens' apparel, and even beggars' ragged 
wear; hats, cloaks, capes, robes, sandals, 
boots, shoes, and others. It seems as if some 
madman has made an effort to collect cloth 
ing of all sorts and types, from the poorest 
sort to the finery of a noble or court fop. If 
care is taken in sorting, adventurers can fill 
three large sacks with good garments, worth 
500 gp per sack. A full turn of sorting is 
needed to fill each sack. 

241. SIDE CHAMBER 

A slightly torn hanging on the south wall 
of area 240 conceals a door, which is pierced 
by a small window closed with an iron shut 
ter. The door has no handle on the north 
side, and is barred from the south. Behind 
this door, watching the junk room from his 
position on a stool, is a guard. While 
observing the junk room through a tear in 
the hanging, he keeps a firm grip on a piece 
of twine, strung between his position and 
that of two other guards currently resting in 
the inner chamber (to the immediate west, 
10' x 20 ). The 10' square cubicle of the 
watcher's position is separated from the 
inner chamber by a large heavy drape. 

If the watcher sees intruders, he pulls the 
twine, which causes a billet of wood to 
thump and alert them, its noise dampened 
by the drape between the areas. If anyone 
approaches the concealed entrance, the 
guard fires a light crossbow through the 












window (gaining a + 4 bonus to hit), slams 
the shutter closed, and retreats to the inner 
room. All three guards then prepare to fire 
crossbows at intruders breaking through the 
concealed door-but only after alerting the 
other guards in area 242. A knock spell 
opens the bar and the door easily, but the 
portal otherwise takes 50 points of damage 
before collapsing. 

Each guard wears chain mail armor and 
shield, and carries a longsword as well as a 
light crossbow with 30 bolts. Each has 2-8 
gp. If captured and questioned, the guards 
admit to being part of a raiding force which 
scouts for the Temple and generally supplies 
it, brings captives, and recruits others (both 
human and humanoid) to serve. 

Guards (3): AC 4 (chain Ik shield), MV 9", 
Level 0, hp 6, 5, 4, #AT 1, D 1-8 (long 
sword) or 2-5 (light crossbow), XP 20, 
19, 18 

The guardpost contains only a stool. In 
the area west of the d rape are two chai rs and 
a table, a barrel with 48 extra crossbow 
bolts, and a cask ofwater. Two torches burn 
in wall sconces, and a hooded lantern on the 
table is lit. Beside the lantern are three mugs 
and a jug of wine. 

242. CROOKED CORRIDOR 

This area is a cramped barracks for 20 
guards, quarters of those in area 241. Four 
are herein, with their leader, a swordsman 
(Level 3 Fighter); the others are out on a 
raiding expedition. All are clad in black. 
Each guardsman carries 2-8 gp; the leader 
wears a gold chain (worth 150 gp) set with a 
large jet gem (worth 100 gp), and carries 27 
gp in a belt pouch. 

If combat goes badly, the leader pulls a 
torch on the south wall (which opens a 
secret door to area 243) and get help from 
the bandits therein while stepping out of the 
fray himself. As he is rather arrogant, feel 
ing his abilities to be equal to nearly any 
test, he does not get the bandits unless 
invaders are obviously winning. 

The guards and their leader all wear chain 
mail armor and carry shields. The leader 
gains a -3 AC bonus due to his 17 Dexterity, 
and a + 1 damage bonus (Strength 15), but 
does not normally use a shield. 

Guards (4): AC 4 (chain 8. shield), MV 9", 
Level 0, hp 7, 5, 5, 4, #AT 1, D 1-8 (long 



sword); XP 17, 15, 15, 14 

Leader: AC 2 (chain mail), MV 9", Level 3 
Fighter, hp 19, #AT 1, D 3-9 (bastard 
sword); XP 92 


This passage is lined with double bunks, 
ten in all. Each has a straw mattress, and 
two small boxes are tucked underneath, 
head and foot. Three torches are 
mounted in wall sconces, but only one, 
on the south wall, is lit. 

A not-very-secret door is in the west 
wall at the bend in the corridor. Above 
it, positioned horizontally, is a large 
beam, studded with sharp spikes. It 
seems to be fastened to a hinge at the 
west end, and supported by a cord at the 
east, which connects to a fastening on 
the door. None of the bunks block the 
door or stand below the beam. 


Many small but worthless items, such as 
clothing, footwear, sacks, rope, et al. are 
under the bunks and in the boxes, but no 
treasure is here. The south torch is the one 
which, if pulled down, opens a three-foot 
wide, four-foot-tall secret door leading to 
area 243. 

The spiked beam is a trap on the secret 
door leading to area 245 (q.v.). An attempt 
to disconnect (remove) it, if unsuccessful, 
inflicts 2-12 points of damage to the person 
making the attempt, as the beam swings 
down and smashes the secret door open 
with a crash. 

243. ROOM, 20' x 30' 

Eight bandits (Level 0) are here with two 
serjeants (Level 2 Fighters). Their leaders are 
in the small adjacent rooms (A and B). Four 
bandits in chain mail are seated at a central 
trestle table, drinking beer, their shields set 
beside them. Two others in scale mail are 
lounging by the west doors, and two more 
in simple leather are seated on stools by the 
fireplace in the south wall, cradling their 
trusty crossbows. (They can fire quickly at 
intruders.) The serjeants are at ease on their 
beds in the south corners of the room. 

Each crossbowman has a case of 20 bolts. 
All the bandits wear black, and each carries 
2-8 gp. Each serjeant carries 21-30 gp. 

Noise of attack most certainly rouses the 
leaders from their private rooms. Com 
mander Feldrin (see room 243a) fights along 
with his troops as long as they seem to have 
a good chance of winning, but tries to 


escape if defeat seems imminent. However, 
Lieutenant Brunk, a half-ore, hates Feldrin 
and desires his command. If the commander 
is imperiled, Brunk does not aid him, and 
may actually assist in his demise if this can 
be accomplished without revealing his acts 
to the troops. 

Bandits (4 at table): AC 4 (chain Ik shield), 
MV 9", Level 0, hp 6, 4, 4, 4, #AT 1, DI-8 
(longsword); XP 16, 14 (x3) 

Bandits (2 at doors): AC 6 (scale mail), 
MV 9", Level 0, hp 6, 5, #AT 1, D 1-10 
(halberd); XP 16, 15 

Bandits (2 on stools): AC 8 (leather armor), 
MV 12", Level 0, hp 7, 4, D 1-6 
(shortsword) or 2-5 (light crossbow); 
XP 16, 15 

Serjeants (2 on beds): AC 4 (chain 8. shield), 
MV 9", Level 2 Fighter, hp 15, 12, #AT 1, 
D 1-8 (longsword); XP 21, 18 

Under duress, the serjeants admit that 
their masters often use disguises to spy in 
Nulb, Hommlet, and other towns. 


This 20' x 30' room is lit by four 
torches in wall sconces. This place con 
tains a pair of beds, a trestle table, two 
benches, two chairs, a writing table, a 
wardrobe, and four stools. At the foot of 
each bed is a large chest. A small fire 
burns in the fireplace in the south wall, 
over which part of a sheep is cooking on 
a spit. A flowing water fountain in the 
east wall spills into a basin below it. 
Rush mats cover the floor, and a few rag 
ged tapestries adorn the walls. Two small 
kegs (of beer, by their aroma) are on the 
table; numerous drinking vessels and 
dishes are on wall shelves. 


243a. COMMANDER'S QUARTERS 

Commander Feldrin, a sharper (Level 7 
thief), lives here. Horned red skulls are 
worked on the chest and back of his cloak of 
protection + 2 and leather armor + 1, and 
he wears a similar symbol on a silver neck 
chain (worth 30 gp). His belt pouch is a 
small bag of holding (1,000 gp capacity) 
containing 2-12 of each coin type. 

Feldrin: AC 1 (leather +1), MV 12", Level 7 
Thief, hp 33; XP989; S 15 I 13 W9 D 18 
Co 15 Ch 17; #AT 1, D 4-10 (broadsword 

+ 2 ) 


73 







If captured, Feldrin does not speak unless 
forced, but he might tell of the Greater Temple 
two levels below and the fearsome things 
therein. (He has been there only a few times and 
cannot guide adventurers beyond the stairs to 
Dungeon Level Three-the flight Just north of 
area 204.) He does speak of the rivalries of the 
various minor Temples, laughing at them, for 
he knows that there are ettins, demons, and 
other horrible creatures serving the Great 
Priests below. He will always attempt to bar 
gain for his life, or to escape (as opportunity 
presents). 


This small 10 square side room is lit by a 
hanging lamp of dull metal. It contains a 
bed, stand, chair, wardrobe, and chest. 
A small rug is on the floor near the bed. 
A cup, ewer, and box are on the stand, in 
the southwest corner is a black candela 
brum with four unlit candles. 


The lamp is unpolished silver, worth 120 
gp. The rug is of quite fine manufacture, 
worth 260 gp. The cup, ewer, and box are 
wrought gold, worth 200 gp, 275 gp, and 
150 gp respectively; the last contains sweet 
meats, the others wine. The chest is locked 
and doubly trapped with a poisoned needle 
in the lock and poison gas inside, which fills 
the whole room unless the trap is removed 
(save or die). The chest contains clothing 
and the like, a sack (containing 112 pp and 
74 gp), a silver bracelet set with much fine 
jade (jewelry value 1, 700 gp), a small lumpy 
velvet bag (which holds 6 zircons worth 50 
gp each), two potion vials (one healing, one 
invisibility), and a bone scrollcase (with an 
illusionist spell, misdirection). 

243b. LIEUTENANTS QUARTERS 

Brunk, a half-ore Fighter/Assassin, 
dwells here. As previously noted, he hates 
Feldrin and covets his command. Brunk 
dresses in black leather armor and wears a 
short black cape as well. His black shield, 
adorned with the device of the red horned 
skull, is specially designed to hold six darts, 
each of which is treated with deadly poison 
(though the victim gains a + 2 bonus to the 
saving throw). He also wears a ring ofpro- 
tection + 2, and a gold earring (100 gp) inset 
with a tiny ruby worth 1,000 gp. His purse 
holds 8 ep and 16 gp. 

Brunk knows little of the Greater Temple 
-only what Feldrin has told him. In case of 
attack he alerts those in area 243 or 244 (as 
appropriate) before emerging for battle. He 


tries to use his darts (fire rate 3 per round, 
with + 1 "to hit" bonus due to 16 Dexterity) 
before engaging, and of course uses his 
assassin skills if possible. 

Brunk: AC 4 (leather 8. shield), MV 12", Level 
4/4 Fighter/Assassin, hp 28, #AT 1, D 1-8 
(longsword) or 2-5 (dagger + I), SA 6 poi 
soned darts, class abilities; XP 868 

244. LOUNGE 

Light in this room is not usually visible from 
the southern approach, as a heavy drape 
hangs inside the door. A peep hole therein per 
mits observation by the occupants. 

The guards in this room are loyal to 
Brunk, the half-ore bandit lieutenant (see 
room 243b). This detachment consists of 
four Level 0 bandits (two human, two half- 
ore) and one half-ore leader (Level 3 
Fighter). Each is garbed in black; the 
swordsman also has a black cape. 

The two human bandits are scurvy 
knaves who prefer half-ore company to 
human. One of this pair watches at a peep 
hole in the south door, and alerts the others 
if intruders are sighted. Each wears leather 
armor, carries a light crossbow with 20 
bolts, and has 2-5 gp. 

The two half-ore bandits wear chain mail 
and shield; each carries a spear, shortsword, 
and coin purse containing 3 cp, 3 sp, 3 ep, 3 
gp, and 1 pp. 

The swordsman, leader of this detach 
ment, is fanatically loyal to Brunk, and will 
remain so whatever occurs. He does what 
ever Brunk wishes. He wears plate 8^ shield, 
carries 31 gp and 4 pp, and has a dagger 
with a tourmaline (worth 175 gp) set in the 
pommel, which was given him by Brunk. 
His 17 Strength gives him a + 1 bonus on "to 
hit" and damage rolls. 

Human bandits (2): AC 8 (leather armor), 
MV 12 ", Level 0, hp 5 each, #AT 1, D 1-6 
(shortsword), SA light crossbow (D 2-5); 
XP 19 each 

Half-ore bandits (2): AC 4 (chain 8^ shield), 
MV 9", Level 0, hp 8, 6, #AT 1, D 1-8 
(longsword), SA 1 spear each (D 1-6, 
ranges 1 "/2"/3"); XP22, 20 
Half-ore swordsman: AC 2 (plate 8^ shield), 
MV 6", Level 3 Fighter, hp 18, #AT 1, 
D 2-9 (battle axe); XP 104 


The plastered walls, paintings, wall hang 
ings, two couches, and upholstered chairs 
in this room indicate that it was once a 


well-appointed place for important Temple 
guests. A heavy drape hangs on the eastern 
portion of the south wall. A brazier and 
pair of torches (in sconces) both light and 
warm the room. The 10 square alcove to 
the north contains a pair of rude cots and a 
small table: the latter holds a flagon and 
several ceramic mugs. 


The drape covers the south door, so that 
light shows neither from the cracks nor the 
peep hole. The flagon contains wine. 

245. RECEPTION HALL 


This 40 x 50 chamber was evidently 
one in which new arrivals were hosted to 
the delights of the Temple; at least, this is 
what the wall murals depict. A few 
pieces of battered furniture-couches, 
chairs, and stands-remain along the 
walls. In the center of the room is a shal 
low pool, its fountain apparently 
stopped and the decorative statue, of a 
minotaur sitting on a throne, much dirt 
ied. Several skeletons lie about the place, 
and some odd skulls and bones as well - 
mostly humans, but some humanoids 
also. None of the many cressets and 
walls sconces are lit; no torches remain. 


The minotaur is alive, it wears gray 
leather armor, and is dirtied to appear as if 
stone, 90% undetectable as real unless stud 
ied within 15 foot range-and it attacks 
before such an approach. This monster par 
ticularly hates the bandits; after it killed 
(and ate) one, they harrassed it, shot it with 
bolts, and have tried to starve it (despite the 
fact that it is here, guarding against 
intruders, on instructions from Temple offi 
cials). It therefore charges whenever it sees 
black-clad intruders, even if it has little 
hope of prevailing. It otherwise attacks any 
one approaching within 20 feet. 

Minotaur: AC 4, MV 12", HD 6 + 3, hp 35, 
#AT 2, D 2-8 butt or 1-4 bite/4-9 (flail), 
SD surprised on 1 only (on Id6); XP 680 

Linder the stone throne is a bag with 13 
agates ofvarious types (worth 10 gp each) and 
a scroll of protection from elementals (all). 

246. CIRCULAR STAIRWAY 

This alcove is at the base of a stairway 
which circles counter-clockwise upward, 
leading to area 153 (Dungeon Level One). 


74 








Dungeon Level Three 


This level was designed to Zuggtmoy's 
specifications. When she reigned over the 
Temple, the northernmost portion of the area 
(339-353) was for rewarding the "faithful", as 
well as for her personal pleasure. Worship 
pers could receive audience with their Mis 
tress or Her ministers without being initiated 
into the secrets of the Greater Temple on the 
level below. Councils and similar matters 
were likewise conducted in these rooms and 
chambers. The southern portion of the level 
(the whole) housed Zuggtmoy's trusted ser 
vants and her "pets"; a few of the latter still 
remain. 

When the Temple was overthrown, the 
magical sealing of the place (to imprison Zug- 
gtmoy) also sealed off the northern portion of 
this dungeon level. The entire wall separating 
the northern and southern portions is thus 
magical, radiating a strong dweomer. it defies 
any attempts to pass through it, whether by 
physical or magical means (including even a 
wish). Similarly, the area cannot be examined 
by crystal ball or other scrying, and cannot be 
penetrated by way of teleport or dimension 
door, plane travel (including Ethereality), etc.. 
In short, the area can be penetrated only by 
direct entrance through the sealed bronze gate 
(area 340), or by finding a Key in one of the 
Elemental Nodes (q. v.) which transfer the user 
to one of the Elemental symbols in area 339. 


RANDOM ENCOUNTERS 

(Ignore in the northern area containing 
Zuggtmoy. ) 

Roll d % once per turn and refer to the fol 
lowing chart. (A result of 13 or more means 
no encounter.) If Zuggtmoy is free to roam 
this level, she appears alone if the result is 
96-98. If the result is 99-00, she appears with 
others; roll again on this chart, using ldl2, 
to find the exact type, and then roll the 
appropriate die to find the number of oth 
ers. 

All encounters are with monsters from 
level 4, except the black puddings (who are 
simply scavenging). 


Id20 Result 


01-03 

1 black pudding 

04 

1-2 ettins 

05 

5-8 gargoyles 

06-07 

2-3 hill giants 

08-09 

5-8 ogres 

10-12 

2-3 trolls 

13-95 

No encounter. 

96-98 

Zuggtmoy alone (if free). 

99-00 

Zuggtmoy (if free) with others- 
roll again (1 d 12) to find type. 


Details 

Black pudding: AC 6, MV 6 ", HD 10, hp 55, 
#AT 1, D 3-24, SA dissolves wood &. 
metal, SD affected only by fire; AL N, 
SZ L (7 dia.), XP 1350 + 14/hp 

Ettins (2): AC 3, MV 12", HD 10, #AT 2, D 2- 
16/3-18, SD surprised only on a 1; AL CE, 
SZ L (13 + ), XP 1950 + 14/hp 

Gargoyles (5-8): AC 5, MV 9 /15", HD 4 + 4, 
#AT 4, D 1-3/1-3/1-6/1-4, SA + 1 bonus 
"to hit" and damage when first swooping to 
attack, SD hit only by + 1 or better magic 
weapons; AL CE, SZ M, XP 165 + 5/hp 

Hill Giants (2-3); AC 4, MV 12, HD 8 + 2, 
#AT 1, D 2-16, SA boulders (D 2-16, nor 
mal ranges 6"/13"/20", indoor ranges 3"/ 
6"/12") AL CE, SZ L (1 O' +), XP 1400 + 
12/hp 

Ogres (5-8); AC 3, MV 9", HD 4 +1, #AT 1, 
D 9-18 (3d4 + 6, with huge trident); AL CE, 
SZ L (9 +), XP90 + 5/hp 

Trolls (2-3); AC 4, MV 12 ", HD 6 + 6, #AT 3, 
D 5-8/5-8/2-12, SD regenerates (3 hp per 
round starting 3 rounds after being dam 
aged); AL CE, SZ L (9 ), XP 525 + 8/hp 


75 
















ROOM KEY 

301. DOMED HEXAGONAL CHAMBER 

The guardians of this chamber, currently 
in the side rooms (areas 302-305), issue from 
their lairs to investigate any intruder noises. 


This large chamber is empty and bare. 
The polished stones of its floor, walls, 
and vaulted ceiling are exceptionally 
smooth and closely fitted, and also seem 
to be of remarkable hardness. Each 
sound-footfall or spoken word- 
echoes alarmingly in this place. Though 
two brackets for torches are mounted on 
each wall (flanking the doors), all are 
empty. 


The stairs to the east lead up to area 210 
(Dungeon Level Two). 

302-305. ROOMS, 30 x 20 

One description (below) applies to each 
of these areas. Each occupant is a troll, 
guarding a key to one of the iron doors in 
area 306. 

In each case, the troll attacks any intruder 
not bearing the colors and identification 
symbols of the Greater Temple -black garb 
and golden skull, or a grinning horned 
skull, or an eye of fire. A visitor with proper 
identification may demand passage; if so, 
the troll fetches its key, accompanies the vis 
itor to the appropriate door, opens the door, 
and locks itafteruse. Having entered, avisi- 
tor may later exit by banging on the door 
and getting the attention of the ettin in that 
area, who then fetches the appropriate troll. 

The keys in these rooms fit the doors in 
area 306 as follows: 

Room has Key to Door (in area 306) 

302 a (north wall, west door) 

303 b (north wall, east door) 

304 c (west wall, north door) 

305 d (west wall, south door) 

Special Note, area 302: 

The secret door in the northwest wall has 
a concealed ring on its interior side. From 
without, it swings inward when pressure is 
applied at the bottom of the panel. The 5' 
wide passage connects areas 302 and 315. 

Descriptions 

A troll lairs here, its sworn duty being to 


prevent intruders from passing through area 
301. When it hears noise therein, it emerges 
and moves to attack all unauthorized visi 
tors. However, it was once fed by clerics of 
the AirTemple, and so does not attack those 
garbed accordingly-though it requests 
food from them ("plenty of nice flesh! 1 ) and 
does not allow them passage through an 
iron door (in area 306). 

Troll: AC4, MV 12", HD6 + 6, hp48, #AT3, 
D 5-8/5-8/2-12, SD regenerates (3 hp per 
round starting 3 rounds after being dam 
aged); XP 909 each (x4) 


This bare room reeks of troll. The floor is 
covered with a filthy litter of dung, 
bones, trash, and bits of cloth. An iron 
hook protrudes from the far wall, from 
which a large key depends. A huge iron 
eye bolt is sunk in the stone of this same 
wall, and from it runs a thick iron chain, 
five feet long, its end broken. The glint of 
metal can be seen when the rubbish on 
the floor is moved. 


Scattered on the floor are 2-20 of each 
coin type (pp, gp, ep, sp, cp). Searching 
reveals 1-10 misc. coins per turn per person. 

306. SQUARE CHAMBER 

An ettin dwells herein. Though he hates 
the trolls (areas 302-305), they are too 
numerous for him to do much more than 
harass them occasionally. He serves as an 
additional guard and beastkeeper. He car 
ries a firepot on his belt, and one of his clubs 
is oil-soaked (so he can light it and threaten 
a troll or two when the opportunity arises). 
A sack hanging from his belt contains 157 
gp, 5 azurites, 6 hematites, and 7 tiger eyes 
(each gem worth 10 gp), and a box of carved 
ivory (worth 100 gp) in which are six blocks 
of incense of meditation. 

Ettin: AC 3, MV 12 ", HD 10, hp 53, #AT 2, 
D 2-16/3-18, SD surprised only on a 1; 
XP 2692 


The ceiling of this large 50' square cham 
ber is at least 40 feet high. Over a great 
fire pit (now cold) in the center of the 
room hang several large chains, one of 
which suspends a great iron pot. Several 
eye bolts are set in the walls, to each of 
which is attached a 10 long chain. Beside 



each door is an empty torch bracket. 
Each of the four iron doors leading out of 
the chamber-two on the north wall, 
two on the east-is secured by a large 
lock. A great heap of cloth, pillows, and 
skins lies in the southwest corner, with a 
tun, barrel, and sack nearby. 


The pot contains a scummy broth, the 
remains of the ettin's last meal. One giant 
weasel pelt in the bed-pile is worth 2,000 gp. 
The sack nearby is filled with dried, smoked 
meat-probably bugbear or ogre. The locks 
on the iron doors can be picked, knocked 
open, or physically forced, though the last 
option requires 1-4 hours of grueling work, 
creates great amounts of noise, and attracts 
the attention of all creatures nearby. 

307. GROTTO 

This is the domain of two leucrotta, pre 
vious pets of Zuggtmoy. Their den is the 
small cave to the southeast of the circular 
chamber. They are now cared for by the 
ettin (area 306), but not nearly often enough 
to suit them; they are voracious. 


This circular chamber, some 40 feet in 
diameter and 40 feet high at the apex of 
its dome, is made to appear as if it were a 
natural setting (albeit bleak and disquiet 
ing). The walls are hewn to appear as 
boulders, and detritus is spread by the 
walls. Jagged rocks likewise protrude 
from the perimeter in seemingly natural 
manner. Even in the relatively open cen 
ter, the floor is uneven, with cracks, 
ledges, and loose rock. 

The whole area is dimly lit by a gray 
light, with no apparent source but none 
theless leaving pools of shadows near the 
walls. A cold, damp breeze moans and 
sighs throughout, and the air smells foul. 
A bone projects from a fissure to the 
east, and near it is a full skeleton clad in 
chain mail. A leering skull atop a low 
slab of rock to the northwest seems to 
taunt you. 


The leucrotta attack anyone foolish 
enough to enter their grotto unless the 
intruder is a demon or some other monster 
obviously involved with the Greater Temple 
(on Dungeon Level Four; note that anyone 
bearing the "branched staff", described in 
area 427, commands their respect). 


76 









Leucrotta(2): AC4, MV18", HD6+1, hp 34, 
29, #AT 1, D 3-18, SA imitate voices, SD 
kick hooves in retreat (D 1 -6/1-6); XP 747, 
707 

The skeleton in the grotto is dwarven, 
clad in chain mail +1. At the bottom of a 
nearby crack (three feet deep and six inches 
wide), just a foot or two from the skeleton's 
right hand, is an axe + 1. A backpack under 
the skeleton contains typical adventuring 
equipment, and a belt pouch holds eight 
vials of holy water. 

In the den is another dwarven skeleton, 
scattered in many pieces. Mixed with the 
bones are five quarrels +3, a broken light 
crossbow, a broken shield, tattered chain 
mail, an intact shortsword, and a belt with 
four small pouches fashioned thereon as part 
of the belt. One pocket holds three gems (an 
amethyst and two pearls, each worth 100 gp); 
the other three pockets are empty. This belt 
magically reduces weight; each pocket can 
hold 100 gp (or ten pounds weight) as if it were 
but 1 gp (or a tenth of a pound). However, 
nothing larger than one by two by three inches 
can fit into a pocket, and the maximum cubic 
volume capacity for a pocket is three by six by 
twelve inches. (Thus, vials of holy water 
would easily fit, but a dagger or wand would 
not, in most cases.) The belt is worth 5,000 gp 
(XP Value 1,000). 

307a. STAIRS 

The exit south from the leucrotta cham 
ber opens into a 10' wide corridor leading 
west, which ends in a set of stairs. The stairs 
descend 20 feet and turn northward, contin 
uing down to Dungeon Level Four, area 401. 

308. FOUNTAIN 


Horrid faces, carved from the same rock 
as the passage, snarl and vomit forth thin 
streams of water which are caught in a 
multi-tiered basin. The liquid has an evil 
smell, and the basin has become lined 
with some sort of aquatic growth. How 
ever, the water is probably drinkable. 


The water is rather sulphurous but potable. 

309. BRONZE PIT 


The corridor, thus far unremarkable, sud 
denly drops off. You stand at the brink 



of an area of 16 foot depth, its sides and 
floor sheathed in smooth, highly pol 
ished bronze. The corridor continues 
east 20 feet, opening into a chamber like 
wise adorned. Further progress is possi 
ble by using narrow ledges along the 
north and south walls of this corridor, 
each being a mere six inches wide-or, of 
course, you may climb down in or tra 
verse the depression by magical means. 

A few scraps of trash litter the floor- 
a bit of cloth, a small bone, and possibly 
a broken dagger. Your lights reflect well 
from the mirror-like sheets of bronze. 


if the corridor ceiling is examined or 
approached, use the following description. 


Some sort of metal gridwork is pressed 
against the stone overhead. From a point 
10' west of the room, it extends east into 
it, being about 35 feet long and five feet 
wide; it is affixed to the northern half of 
the corridor ceiling. The grillwork con 
sists of three long bronze rods latticed by 
slightly smaller rods at intervals of 18 
inches or thereabouts. A heavy bronze 
chain hangs from its east end, in the 
room, down to a point ten feet above the 
floor. 


This is a ladder which can be pulled down 
by 250 or more pounds of weight. The west 
end remains fixed to the roof of the passage, 
as the east end swings down into the pit 
(working rather as a modern fire escape lad 
der). Note that users must keep hold of it or 
weight it, else it swings back up into storage 
position. If used, the noise as it hits the floor 
brings the occupant of the place (in area 
309a) rushing forth at full speed! 

Read the following if the main chamber is 
observed. 


The chamber is octagonal, its sides and 
floor still sheathed in polished bronze. 
The six-inch wide ledge extends around it 
at the height of the entry corridor, 16 feet 
above the floor. In the ceiling, which is 
cleanly cut from the surrounding rock, 
are eight holes, each about two inches 
across, placed to form a circle in the cen 
ter of the ceiling above the chamber. Two 
arched portals near the floor are visible 
in the north and south walls, each being 
six feet wide and nine feet tall. 



Note that noise herein does not attract the 
occupant of area 309a unless intruders are 
on or near the floor of the area. The holes in 
the ceiling are the only remnants of an ear 
lier plan to construct a hanging observation 
gallery, never completed; Zuggtmoy simply 
walked along the ceiling to view the speci 
men, and others were uninterested. 

All the bronze is magical, enchanted to 
prevent the area's occupant from burrowing 
out. The creature will use the ladder if possi 
ble. 

309a. SOUTH CUBICLE 

This is the current lair of an umber hulk, 
who alternates its habitat between this and 
the northern cubicle. It is occasionally fed 
by the ettin (area 306). If presented with the 
opportunity, it climbs the ladder in prefer 
ence to attacking intruders, as this is its 
most likely means of escape. If freed, it tries 
to devour one man-sized victim, kill 5-8 
others to satisfy its long-pent rage at its cap 
tivity (whether characters or local resi 
dents), and then dig its way out of the 
dungeons. 

Umber hulk: AC 2, MV 6 (1 -6 "), HD 8 + 8, 
hp 50, #AT 3, D 3-12/3-12/2-10, SA gaze 
(save vs. spells or be confused 3-12 
rounds); XP 1900 


Through the south archway is a 10' 
cubicle. Its floor is covered with piles of 
cloth, skins, hides, and furs, creating a 
nest-like area in the center. A small basin 
of water on the east wall is fed by a small 
bronze gargoyle face which spits liquid 
into the bowl, where a small drain takes 
away the excess. 


If 15 man-turns are spent searching this 
room, a pair of small-sized boots of 
elvenkindis found. These fit any person of 
gnome size or thereabouts, possibly a small 
footed human female. 

309b. NORTH CUBICLE 


Through the north archway is a 10 cubi 
cle. Its floor is a litter of bones, shredded 
cloth and leather, broken weapons, bits 
of rope, and other items. The room is 
foul, and stinks. Scattered amidst the 
mess are a few coins of various types. 


Herein are a leather wand case containing 


77 











a wand of lightning (5-50 charges), a pouch 
which holds five pieces of jewelry (each 
worth 300-1800 gp), and an alabaster flask 
(worth 25 gp) filled with perfume (a rare 
sort worth 1,400 gp). Scattered about are 
50-300 cp, 30-120 sp, 20-80 ep, 10-60 gp, 
and 5-50 pp. If-and only if-all of the 
coins are dug out of the trash, involving 12 
man-turns of work, 3-12 gems (each worth 
50 gp) can also be found. 

310. SUNLIT ROOM 


As soon as you turn the bend in the pas 
sage, you see what appears to be a sunlit 
area to the northwest. The corridor is 
only dimly illuminated at the bend, due 
to a shimmering haze, but the light 
grows brighter towards the area ahead. 


Continue if the room is approached. 


Just before entering the place, you see 
small dim shapes moving about. Though 
the haze distorts them, they appear to be 
giant rats and foxes. The area is a 20' x 
30' room, the ceiling (if there is one) is 
impossible to see, due to the bright light. 
Blue sky and a hot sun seem to be over 
head, but the sky appears close-only 20 
feet up, or thereabouts. 

in each of four alcoves in the northern 
portion of the chamber (two in the north 
wall, one to either side, and all about ten 
feet above the floor) sits a harpy, gazing 
with evident pleasure at the scene below. 
Centered below is a raised slab of rock, 
upon which are chained a man and a 
woman. Swarming around this table-like 
slab are a score of jackals and twice as 
many giant rats. All are attempting to 
clamber up to devour the victims, but the 
rock is quite smooth and evidently slip 
pery, for only rarely does one of the beasts 
manage to leap up and attack. The chains 
have sufficient slack to enable the prisoners 
to defend themselves slightly; thus, when 
bitten, the victim can move away or lash 
out. Each prisoner has a few bites evident, 
but more often than not they strike the 
attacking beast off the rock. 

To tantalize the captives, several items 
lay atop the slab just out of their reach: a 
large ring with a key in it, a dagger, a 
longsword, and a rod of some sort. As 
you observe this tableaux, the prisoners 



notice your presence and cry out for aid! 
The rats, foxes, and jackals take no 
notice, but the harpies look up, notice 
you, and open their mouths. 


Most of this area radiates magic. The har 
pies are actually gargoyles; the prisoners are 
actually jackalweres. The rats and foxes are 
illusory, but the jackals and items are real. 
The deceptions are from a permanent illu 
sion, other elements of which are the cap 
tives' wounds and chains. 

A few jackals were waiting at the bend in 
the passage, and ran back when intruders 
were sighted to warn their masters, the jack 
alweres, of the approaching food.... 

The initial attack by the gargoyles is pref 
aced by their squawking, slightly similar 
but in no way as effective as that of real har 
pies. As these monsters squawk and fly in to 
attack, the normal jackals also turn to 
devour intruders. While these attacks occur, 
the jackalweres (still playing prisoner) add 
their sleep gazes to disable intruders, if this 
is noticed or if the gargoyles start losing the 
fight, the jackalweres "break" their illusory 
chains, grab their very real weapons, and 
move in for the attack while exclaiming 
their intent to aid the party. The male uses 
the longsword; the female, the mace (which 
appeared to be a rod) and the dagger (gain 
ing two attacks per round), if grappled, 
they drop their weapons and shift form to 
jackal-headed guise, resorting to bite 
attacks. 

Gargoyles (4); AC 5, MV 9"/15", HD 4+ 4, 
hp 27, 25, 24, 20, #AT4, D 1-3/1-3/1-6/1- 
4, SD hit only by + 1 or better weapon; XP 
300, 290, 285, 265 

Jackalweres (2): AC 4, MV 12", HD 4, hp 27, 
22, #AT 1, D 2-8, SAgaze = sleep (save vs. 
spells), weapon use, SD hit only by iron or 
+ 1 or better weapon; XP908, 888 

Jackals (20): AC 7, MV 12", HD 1/2, hp 4, 3, 
2, 1 (5 of each), #AT 1, D 1-2; XP 9 (x5), 8 
(x5), 7 (x5), 6 (x5) 

In a concealed space under the rock slab 
are the monsters' treasures, garnered from 
victims since Zuggtmoy no longer takes 
such from them. The loot includes 104 cp, 
171 sp, 223 ep, 410 gp, 67 pp, 9 gems (roll 
for random value), two pieces of jewelry 
(random value), a potion ofplant control, 



and a scroll of four magic-user spells (spider 
climb, levitate, infravision, extension I). 

311. CHAMBER OF STATUES 


This circular chamber, some 40 feet in 
diameter, is lit by four weirdly glowing 
globular cressets of ancient bronze. The 
light reveals nine monstrous statues, 
whose stoney visages are still sufficient 
to strike fear into the heart. Beyond a 
smallish blue dragon is a beholder; a fire 
giant, manticore, and medusa seem to 
stand in frozen conversation; and off to 
one side are a mummy, an ogre mage, a 
wight, and a rakshasa. 


The lights are will-o-wisps, shedding a 
dim violet radiance. They wait until the 
characters' attentions are concentrated on 
the statues (and the items they have, and the 
implied threats; see below). At that time, 
the wisps slowly glide forward, cleverly 
dimming their lights so shadows and light 
intensity do not betray their movement, and 
suddenly attack in concert. If two are slain, 
the others flee, in each of the four cressets is 
a star sapphire worth 1,000 gp. 

Will-o-wisps (4): AC -8, MV 18", HD 9, hp 
40, 38, 36, 33, #AT 1, D 2-16, SD immune 
to most spells, can become invisible for 2-8 
rounds; XP 1680, 1656, 1632, 1596 

Beholder 


This statue seems to gaze fixedly upon a 
scroll tube lying before it. 


The tube is protected by a fire trap. It con 
tains a scroll of protection from magic. 

Dragon 


From the head formation, this must be a 
blue dragon, it seems to be admiring a 
copper bound box which is filled with 
gems. 


The box is two feet wide and tall, and 
three feet long. It contains 200 quartz gems 
(base value 1 gpeach, maximum value 10 gp 
each). The box itself is magical, with invisi 
ble runes scribed upon its front; these reveal 
four command words. The first shrinks the 
box to a twelfth of normal size, with all con 
tents likewise becoming minute. The weight 


78 











of the shrunken chest, empty or filled, is 30 
pounds. The second word causes the chest 
(if normal sized) to function as one upon 
which a Leomund's secret chest spell has 
been placed (but with no smaller replica 
necessary!). The third word causes the box 
to return to full size or normal place, as 
applicable. The fourth word causes growth 
to quadruple dimensions, with sides, top, 
and bottom of one foot thickness, huge cop 
per bands, and a weight of 1,200 pounds. 

Fire Giant 


The mighty right hand of this statue 
bears a spear, held like a dart. 


This is a spear + 2, cursed backbiter (see 
DMG page 169). 

Manticore 


This stone monster appears to be poised 
over a crossbow. 


This is a crossbow ofspeed, but its string 
is missing. It will not fire until a new one is 
added with an enchant weapon then placed 
upon it, or until a string from another magi 
cal crossbow is used. Furthermore, the new 
string will break if a "to hit" roll of a natural 
20 is rolled for firing a bolt. 

Medusa 


This figure wears a velvety cloak of deep 
black. 


This is a cloak of poisonousness (see 
DMG page 141), which can be handled 
safely but, when donned, instantly slays the 
wearer (no saving throw). 

Mummy 


This detailed sculpture holds a staff in 
one hand and a ceramic bottle in the 
other. 


The former item is a normal quarterstaff 
upon which a glyph of warding (blindness) 
has been placed. The bottle holds a pint of 
strong acid (a double-sized flask, for D 4-16 
when thrown as a grenade-like missile, or 4 
splashes to 10 range, damage I per splash). 



Ogre mage 


This statue is adorned with a silver chain 
around its neck, from which depends a 
silver globe with the face, in bas relief, of 
the Man in the Moon. 


The necklace is magical. It holds, and 
keeps permanent (until used), a pebble simi 
lar to a sling stone which is an Otiluke's 
freezing sphere. This can be detached and 
hurled to 60' range, then bursting and 
inflicting 4-24 points of cold damage to each 
victim within ten feet. 

Rakshasa 


One of the stoney digits of this horrid 
statue is circled by a golden ring. 


This is a ring of delusion which performs 
as X-ray vision for one turn before becom 
ing absolutely false and useless. 

Wight 


This stone figure crouches before a silver 
urn, perhaps some form of funerary ves 
sel. 


The urn is platinum, an ancient votive 
worth 20,000 gp. Inside is a fine magical 
powder, dust of sneezing and choking, 
which spills out if the vessel is examined. 
Each creature within 20 feet at that time is 
disabled for 5-20 rounds, and must make a 
saving throw vs. poison or die. None of the 
dust can be recovered or saved for later use. 

312. EARTH-FLOORED AREA 


The whole floor of this chamber is cov 
ered with a noisome earth, soil that con 
tains much manure and other rotting 
things. From this sickening humus spring 
numerous thin-stalked fungi growths, 
thicker ones bearing strange caps, 
spongy-looking growths, and various 
shelf-fungi and tumerous spherical blobs 
growing from niches and shelves placed 
along the walls. These latter growths, as 
well as a few of those growing from the 
floor, give off a ghostly phosphorescent 
illumination. 

As you set foot in the place, you hear a 
female voice call out a warning to "stand 
still! Some of the fungi are dangerous. I 



know the path, and will come to guide 
you". You see a comely head moving this 
way and that through the huge fungi, 
evidently following a winding course 
through the growths. 


The lamia in this area tends the "garden, 11 
awaiting Zuggtmoy's return. While at a dis 
tance, she first casts a charm person spell at 
the most powerful-looking character. 
Before checking its success, she then uses 
suggestion on another character, saying that 
some fungi cause insanity, and he or she 
must aid in restraining any character who 
insanely attacks others. The lamia then 
advances under the illusion of being an 
armor-clad female fighter, while asking the 
(hopefully) charmed victim to turn and 
check the other characters for insanity. 

The monster then attacks with her 
shortsword +1 (gaining a +1 strength 
bonus to damage) and wisdom-draining 
touch, engaging two different opponents if 
at all possible. She does not attack the vic 
tims of her charm and suggestion spells if 
they seem to have succumbed to the 
enchantments. She concentrates the touch 
attacks on one opponent, if possible, and 
continually urges the victim to turn and aid 
her in attacking the others "who are obvi 
ously insane, from the fungi". If the victim s 
Wisdom reaches 2, he or she will comply. If 
damaged significantly, the lamia flees into 
the maze of fungi, casts a mirror images 
spell (producing three images), and immedi 
ately returns to the fray. 

Lamia: AC 3, MV 24", HD 9, hp 48, #AT 2, 
D 3-8 (weapon)/0 + wisdom drain 
(touch), SA spells, XP 2276 

The monster wears a gold necklace 
(worth 1,000 gp) set with five star rubies 
(each worth 1,000 gp). Extremely careful or 
magical examination also reveals a pair of 
bracers of defense AC 6 hidden on her long 
haired legs. 

The door at the southwest corner leads to 
stairs up, which end at area 222a (Dungeon 
Level Two). 

312a. STAIRS 

The exit at the southeast corner of the 
lamia chamber opens into a 10' wide corri 
dor, jogging south and continuing east, 
which ends in a set of stairs. The stairs 


79 













descend 20 feet and turn northward, contin 
uing down to Dungeon Level Four, area 401. 

313. CIRCULAR SHAFT 


This area is not in use; the floor is cov 
ered with dried husks, castings, and 
other less definable litter. Heavy webs 
mask the ceiling, but they are at least 20 
feet up, so it must be some distance 
beyond. The dust and dirt collected on 
the strands of spidersilk show that the 
monster which made them is probably 
no longer here. 


The trap door in the northwest part of the 
floor is well hidden. A small stone flag must 
be lifted to reveal the door's opening ring. 
Steep steps lead down to a passage, the floor 
of which is about 15 feet below that of this 
chamber. The steps are worn and relatively 
clean. A small twig broom lies at the bottom 
of the steps, used to maintain the trap door's 
obscurity. 

314. CHAMBER OF EYES 

For each turn that the party spends in 
here, a 50% chance exists that an inhabitant 
of a connecting room (315-318) will enter. 
Use Id4 for random selection. 


The plastered walls of this triangular 
room are covered with paintings of eyes 
and the symbol of the Eye of Fire-an 
equilateral triangle with a "Y" shape 
within, the branches at the base corners 
and the stem meeting the apex. The eyes 
are of all sorts-human and monstrous, 
blind-looking, multi-faceted, and ofvar- 
ious colors-and all seem to stare in 
hatred, hunger, or fright. 

The chamber has seen rather rough use 
of late, for there are piles of rubbish scat 
tered about, gnawed bones, and signs of 
a large fire apparently frequently burned 
in the middle of the floor. Just ten feet 
south of the steps to the north is a large 
brass gong, suspended from a hornwood 
frame. Two smoky cressets burn on the 
east and west walls, about midway 
between each pair of doors. 


The stairs to the north lead upwards to 
area 209a (Dungeon Level Two). The gong 
can be rung by striking it with any blunt 
weapon or similar object. The sound will 
arouse all those nearby (areas 315-318). 



315. HEXAGONAL CHAMBER 

Six bugbears are quartered herein. Origi 
nally, they and their captain were to patrol 
for intruders and keep the fighting between 
the factions to a minimum, preventing the 
destruction of the real strength of the whole 
Elemental Evil effort. They are thus dressed 
in black. They are now simply staying here, 
keeping out of sight and "dogging it" (so to 
speak). If they discover intruders or are 
attacked, they shout to alert their fellows (in 
areas 316-318) or strike the warning gong, 
whichever is the more easily accomplished. 
The bugbears do not know of the existence 
of the secret passage which leads to area 
302. Each has a small bag of unappetizing 
foodstuffs and miscellaneous junk, along 
with 2-8 pp, 4-16 gp, and 5-30 ep. 

Bugbears (6); AC 5, MV 9", HD 3 + 1, hp 19, 
17, 16, 15, 12, 10, #AT 1, D 2-8 (bardiche), 
SA surprise on 1-3; XP211, 203, 199, 195, 
183, 175 


Torch brackets are affixed to the walls of 
this hexagonal chamber, but without 
torches. The stone here is of dull ocher. 
The ceiling arches to a height of about 25 
feet in the center. A large iron brazier 
stands in the center of the room, and a rude 
table by the south wall. Six heaps of old 
cloth (rugs, tapestries, clothing, and badly 
cured animal skins) lie on the floor. 


316. HEXAGONAL CHAMBER 

Two bugbear leaders (of those in area 315) 
live here. Each is likewise clad in black. In 
the event of trouble, these monsters rely on 
their own force, not calling on those in areas 
317 or 318. Each gains a + 1 strength bonus 
to damage. They flee any unfavorable 
encounter if possible. 

Bugbear leaders (2): AC 4; MV 9"; 
HD 4; hp 24; 22; #AT 1; D 3-9 (bar 
diche); SA surprise on 1-3; XP 231, 223 

Each leader carries 10 ep, 20 gp, and 10 pp, 
and wears a gold ring set with a bloodstone (a 
symbol the bugbears recognize as direct 
authority over them, by order of Zuggtmoy 
herself) worth 50 gp. The larger wears an elec- 
trum armlet (worth 30 gp) and a silver belt 
buckle (15 gp); the other wears a gold earring 
in one nostril (20gp). 



Torch brackets are affixed to the walls of 
this hexagonal chamber, but without 
torches. The stone here is of mottled rust 
and moss-green hue. The ceiling arches 
to a height of about 25 feet in the center. 
A large iron brazier stands in the center 
of the room, and a rude table by the 
south wall, with a cabinet nearby. Two 
heaps of pillows, cushions, and old cloth 
(rugs, tapestries, etc.) lie on the floor. 


The cabinet holds some smoked meat, 
cheese, several bottles of wine, and eight 
battered silver plates (worth 25 gp each). 

317. PLEASURE CHAMBER 

Four ogres use this room as a lair. They 
were originally sent to find out what the 
bugbears were doing; when they found 
them (and their master in area 318), they 
decided to stay, liking ease and the promise 
of lots of food and treasure. The former has 
been lacking, of late; they are hungry. They 
fight normally, and the weakest of the four 
is also a shaman, able to cast detect magic 
and light each day; he also has a javelin + 2 
to hurl if hard-pressed. 

Each ogre has a large belt pouch contain 
ing 10-80 gp and 10-60 pp; the largest also 
has three carnelians (each worth 50 gp) hid 
den inside his jack. Each ogre gains a +2 
strength bonus to damage when using the 
weapon noted (a huge morning star). 

Ogres (4): AC 4; MV 9"; HD 4 + 1; hp 26, 
22, 21, 20; #AT 1; D 3-12 (ldlO + 2); 
SA smallest has cleric spells (detect 
magic, light) and a javelin + 2; XP 220, 
200, 195, 190 


The walls of this colorful 30' square 
room are covered with mosaics, depict 
ing all sorts of weird and depraved 
scenes. The floor is a mosaic of like 
scenes. A few pieces of broken furniture 
are stacked near the fireplace in the west 
wall. Two heaps of rugs, skins, etc. are 
by the east wall, with two more near the 
southeast corner. Between them is a large 
barrel. Two small pots stand near the 
fireplace, and a large kettle is suspended 
over the dead ashes. Two unlit cressets 
are on each wall except the west. There 
are six in all. 


80 










The barrel contains 30 gallons of ale; the 
pots and kettle are empty. 

318. PLEASURE CHAMBER 

Scorpp, a hill giant, dwells herein with his 
pet wolf (worg) Splot. The giant is a bit 
smarter than most of his kind-smart 
enough to know that he has discovered a 
way to live in ease, with slaves (the bug 
bears and ogres) but not bright enough to 
understand the consequences of his rebel 
lion. He thinks of himself as King in this 
area, and the ogres and bugbears are seen as 
his "loyal subjects" (slaves). He demands 
that half of the food and treasure taken be 
given to him. 

Scorpp has no intention of returning to 
the Greater Temple below, liking the free 
dom and position he has found. He will 
fight any intruder, regardless of their garb; 
but black-garbed enemies ensure his abso 
lute resistance, for he sees such as former 
superiors, coming to punish him for his fail 
ure to return. 

Scorpp keeps two boulders nearby for use 
as missiles prior to melee. If combat goes 
badly, he asks for quarter, offering to serve 
the opponents if his life is spared. He will, of 
course, seek to escape or kill his captors, as 
opportunity permits. He does know the way 
to the Greater Temple, and can estimate the 
number of bugbears ("more than fingers 'n' 
toes"), ogres ("many"), hill giants ("lots"), 
and ettins ("couple-tree o' dem"). 

Hill Giant, Scorpp: AC 4; MV 12"; HD 8 + 2; 
hp 44; #AT 1; D 2-16; SA boulders (D 2-16, 
normal ranges 6"/13"/20", indoor ranges 
376/12") ;XP 1028 

Worg, Spiot: AC 6; MV 18"; HD 4 + 4; 
hp 23; #AT 1; D 2-8; XP 205 

Scorpp wears a black bearskin, pinned at 
the shoulder by a silver skull clasp (50 gp 
value). The room description is the same as 
that for area 317, except that strange fung 
ous growths are also shown in the obscene 
mosaics. The room contains one large heap 
of bedding, an iron chest with a huge pad 
lock, and a thick rancid stew in the kettle in 
the fireplace. The chest contains 622 ep, 
2783 gp, 17 gems worth 10 gp each (nine 
agates, four tiger eyes, and four bits of tur 
quoise), and a potion ofred dragon control. 


319. ROOM, 20' x 20' 


The oaken door is bronze-bound and 
held fast by a large bar and padlock as 
well. 


The lock can be picked or destroyed by 25 
points of damage. 


The room is 20 square, with some filthy 
straw scattered on the floor, a small 
drain hole in the northwest corner, and a 
water-filled barrel. Herein are two 
humans, an ore, a hobgoblin, and three 
goblins. 


These are prisoners, captured on raids 
and kept as food. All are rather skinny and 
weak; none will serve with the party. All ask 
to be freed; the humans, who are farmers, 
also say that the others recently slew and ate 
their friend Charlie. The monsters can be 
slain without difficulty, if desired. 

320. ROOM, 20 x 30 


This oak door is heavily bound with 
bronze and secured by bar and heavy 
padlock. 


The lock can be picked or destroyed by 25 
points of damage. 


The room is 20" x 30, littered with 
straw. Herein are a gnoll, a bugbear, and 
two ogres. 


These creatures are malnourished and 
weak; all are sentenced to die for various 
acts of disobedience. None will serve with 
the party, if given the opportunity, they will 
try to slay and eat their rescuers; however, 
they can be slain without problem, due to 
their poor condition. 

321. HALL OF BLACK FEASTING 


This 40' square room is floored in blocks 
of alternating red and black stone. The 
supports and ceiling are all black. The 
walls are plastered and decorated with 
scenes of horrid feasts-a banquet where 
ghouls, ghasts, shadows, and vampires 
join Temple clerics and demons in an 
unspeakable repast. The many cressets 
along the walls are unlit, for this place 



seems to have been deserted for some 
time. Several long tables, chairs, and 
sideboards are here, all dusty but other 
wise in good condition. The tables still 
hold many dishes, platters, drinking ves 
sels, and containers. 


in four man-turns of searching, the party 
can find two golden settings. Each has four 
pieces: aflagon (250 gp value), aplatter(300 
gp), a plate (175 gp), and a salt cellar (50 
gp). The weight of each piece is half its gp 
value. 

322. HALL OF ARMORED SKELETONS 


This 30" wide area is lined with disquiet 
ing guardians-or trophies. Thirteen 
human skeletons stand at attention along 
each wall, all clad in various forms of 
armor. Each holds a different pole arm or 
missile weapon. Four large bronze stands 
are by each wall, evidently candle hold 
ers, though no candles remain. Six pairs 
of crossed swords and six shields deco 
rate the north wall. 


The armor types and weapons are not 
important; they are all useless, being rusted, 
rotten, and decayed. If any of the swords 
and shields on the north wall are touched, 
one falls with a loud clatter, alerting the 
inhabitants of areas 323-324. One of the 
shields is a shield +1, bearing the arms of 
Veluna in canton, with a gold field showing 
crossed billets proper. The four candle 
stands are worth 5 gp each. 

323. SCARLET ROOM 

Eight shadows linger in this chamber, 
awaiting the return of Zuggtmoy and luz- 
and thereby a return to the days of feasting 
and "sport" in the Temple. They are seldom 
fed, and are thus weak and hungry for life 
forces, if they hear noise in area 322, they 
hurry to investigate. 

Shadows (8): AC 7; MV 12"; HD 3 + 3; 
hp 20, 18, 16, 16, 15, 14, 12, 10; #AT 1; D 
2-5; SA hit drains 1 point strength (vic 
tim recovers in 2-8 turns), surprise 90% 
(undetectable unless brightly lit); SD hit 
only by + 1 or better weapon; XP 335, 
327, 319, 319, 315, 311, 303, 295 


81 












This chamber is red. The floor, walls, 
and curved ceiling are each of a subtly 
different hue, to jar the vision of the 
onlooker. The overall impression is 
bloody and disgusting. Rotting cushions 
and divans, all of red cloth and again 
each slightly different from another, are 
scattered here and there. A low round 
table of wood lacquered in orange-red 
stands near the west end of the room; 
upon it is a red serving set of several cups 
and a bowl. Each of the two candelabra 
nearby holds 13 candle stubs. 


The red serving set is made of cinnebar, 
the whole worth 450 gp. The candelabra are 
made of solid rose gold; each weighs 1,200 
gp and is worth 2,250 gp if maintained in 
good condition, or 1,200 gp if battered, 
bent, or dismantled. 

324. BLACK ROOM 

As with area 323, eight shadows lurk 
herein, waiting for the return of the Temple's 
heyday, if noise is heard, they investigate 
rapidly, seeking life forces upon which they 
may feed. The strongest shadow carries a 
short baton-like rod of ebony, which is 
graven with the glyphs of luz and Zuggt- 
moy. This device gives immunity from all 
Turning and undead control in a 10' radius, 
but its wielder cannot attack, as two hands 
are needed to carry the rod. 

Shadows (8): AC 7; MV 12"; HD 3 + 3; 
hp 20, 18, 16, 16, 15, 14, 12, 10; #AT 1; D 
2-5; SA drain 1 point strength (victim 
recovers in 2-8 turns); surprise 90% 
(undetectable unless brightly lit); SD hit 
only by + 1 or better weapon; XP 335, 
327, 319, 319, 315, 311, 303, 295 


The walls, floor and ceiling of this 20 1 x 
40' area are dull black stone; heavy vel 
vet hangings of ebony hue cover the 
walls, and even the torch brackets along 
uncovered sections are made of a black 
ish metal. Couches and chairs of black 
wood remain here in good condition, 
upholstered in cloth of the same somber 
hue. A large black cabinet stands by the 
west wall. 


The four black metal sconces are solid sil 
ver, each weighing 100 gp and worth 50 gp 
due to their workmanship; if badly dam 


aged, their value drops to that of the silver 
(5 gp). in the cabinet are several worthless 
scrolls and books, jars and other containers 
holding similarly worthless substances, a 
rope of 32 black pearls worth a total of 
16,000 gp (mixed in with several pieces of 
worthless jewelry of black paste), a potion 
of hill giant strength, and a protection from 
undead scroll. A thorough search takes 
three turns. 

325. KITCHEN 


From the appearance of a huge fireplace 
in the north end of this room, and the 
condition of various containers of 
foodstuffs-flour, meal, salt, oil, pre 
served meats and cheeses-it is apparent 
that this kitchen is still used occasionally. 
Enough food is here to feed several score 
people for many days. Shelves and long 
counters hold containers, foodstuffs, 
and cooking utensils: spits, skewers, 
long forks and spoons, ladles, etc. 


Behind a large open cupboard in the 
south section of the west wall is a concealed 
door. The room beyond contains barrels of 
beer, ale, wine, and even a small cask of 
brandy (40 pounds, 300 gp value). Also here 
are 26 crystal goblets and a matching 
decanter; this set fills three backpacks 
(assuming careful packing to avoid break 
age). The decanter is worth 200 gp; each 
goblet, 50 gp. 

326.0PULENTBEDCHAMBER 

A groaning spirit, the banshee of the dead 
elf stretched out on the floor of the room, 
haunts this place. She lurks behind a folding 
screen. When intruders enter the room, she 
comes out (and each person seeing her must 
make a saving throw vs. spells or flee), wails 
(and each victim within 30 feet must make a 
saving throw vs. spells or die and then 
attacks anyone as yet unharmed. The ban 
shee hates all who now live, and fights 
fiercely until near extinction, when she 
finally tries to escape. If escape is impos 
sible, she offers a bribe for her survival; she 
knows where, as a living being, she hid an 
elven longbow + 1, cloak ofelvenkind, and 
elfin chain mail suitable for any elfin female 
or other character of similar size (gp value 
500, XP value 100). Note that these items, 
hidden somewhere near her chamber, will 
remain hidden for many years if she does 


not reveal them. 

Groaning Spirit; AC 0; MV 15; HD 7; 
hp 39; #AT 1; D 1-8; SA deadly wail (30' 
range); fear on sight; SD hit only by + 1 
or better weapon; immune to charm, 
sleep, hold, cold, and electricity; XP 
2840 


This place is covered with thick carpets, 
with many cushions spread about. Upon 
it lies the mummified body of an elf, face 
down just beyond the entryway with the 
hilt of a dagger protruding from its back. 
Its remains are clad in rotting splendor; 
the garments are of silk and brocade, and 
jewels gleam from earrings, a necklace, a 
bracelet, and two rings. The skeletal 
right hand clutches a carved stone of 
some sort. 

Near the body is a large curio cabinet, 
its door slightly ajar. The cabinet con 
tains mummified portions of humans, 
demi-humans, and humanoids, as well 
as small intricately carved statuettes and 
blocks of ivory, soapstone, and so 
forth - each depicting something 
obscene. 

The dark room has many unused can 
delabra and wall sconces. Its plastered 
walls are painted with scenes of deca 
dence, and the tapestries hanging here 
and there show similar scenes of deprav 
ity. A huge bed stands against the north 
wall, with a stand of carved wood to 
each side. A long, low table is flanked by 
couches; nearby is another such table 
with three plush chairs. In the southwest 
corner a folding screen of uskwood sepa 
rates a wardrobe, dressing table, and pil 
lowed stool from the rest of the place. 


Each of the skeleton's four pieces of jew 
elry (counting the pair of earrings as a single 
piece) is worth a base value of 2,000-8,000 
gp. When checking each piece for detail and 
workmanship, apply a -1 bonus to the roll 
(on ldlO) for the first piece (only). In the 
skeletal hand is a periapt of proof against 
poison, + 3. Under the remains is a small 
pouch which holds a scroll of six magic-user 
spells (gust of wind, tongues, polymorph 
self, remove curse, airy water, and limited 
wish). The cabinet contains 13 carvings 
(base value 100-1000 gp each). Two tapes 
tries are valuable, worth 1, 100 gp and 850 
gp respectively, despite their small size. 


82 








327. DINING SALON 


Above a long wooden table in the middle 
of this plastered and decorated room 
hangs a large chandelier. Twelve chairs 
flank the table. Two sideboards, a cabi 
net, and a wheeled cart complete the fur 
nishings. 


The furniture is good but not of great 
worth. All the valuable dishes and other 
items have been stripped from the room. 

328. STORAGE AREA 


This oddly shaped chamber is lined with 
shelves which still contain many empty 
containers; here are bottles, flasks, alem 
bics, retorts, and other such parapher 
nalia typical to an alchemist's or wizard's 
laboratory. On the floor are more mun 
dane items-a large box of chalk, sacks 
of charcoal, jugs of turpentine and fuel 
oil, candles ofvarious colors, etc. Suffic 
ient material seems herein to stock a 
small shop and supply a magic-user or 
two as well. 


Nothing here is of high value, but the 
room contains nearly any commonplace 
item akin to those listed; use your judg 
ment. 

328a. STAIRWAY 

The stairs here ascend to the east, leading 
to area 227a (Dungeon Level Two). 

329. ALCHEMY WORKROOM 


The merest glance herein reveals the past 
purpose of this circular room a place for 
alchemical experimentation. The walls 
and floor are covered with graven sym 
bols, glyphs indicating the elements, 
metals, and other stuff of alchemy. 
Benches and work tables line the walls; 
upon them are flasks, retorts, crucibles, 
et al. Three braziers, each of a different 
size, are aligned in the middle of the 
room, piled with plates and dishes which 
hold heaps of strange powders, granules, 
and crystals. Beakers and flasks here and 
there are filled with odd substances. 

Careful inspection reveals metal in 
powder and chunk form, including 10-40 
coins weight of each coin type (platinum, 




gold, electrum, silver, and copper), but 
no actual coins. A small pottery flask 
weighs over ten pounds; it contains 100 
gp weight of quicksilver (mercury), 
worth 1,000 gp. To describe other items 
and materials found, refer to the DMG, 
pages 218 (the table for magic-user fur 
nishings) and 221-222 Appendix K, for 
specific substance descriptions). 


330. LABORATORY 


This area, 10 wide and 50 long, seems 
to have been meant principally for the 
reading and writing of spells. 

Cressets are fitted to the walls at ten- 
foot intervals. A long, slanted shelf is 
along the north wall, with many stools 
spaced along its 30' length. Sheets ofvel- 
lum and parchment still lie upon the 
shelf, accompanied on an upper ledge by 
quills of many sorts, small pots with 
oddly carved stoppers, and candlesticks. 
A small writing desk stands at the west 
end, and a lectern at the far east; oppo 
site each of these objects is an arched 
doorway, leading north. Several small 
chairs are nearby, along the south wall. 


Careful examination of the inkpots 
reveals one which is filled with magical ink, 
in a quantity sufficient to inscribe seven 
spells (and worth 700 gp). The nine rolls of 
papyrus (worth 2 gp each) and eleven sheets 
of parchment (worth 4 gp each) are usable 
for such work, but the five sheets of vellum 
(worth 8 gp each) are better (-5% chance of 
copying failure; see DMG page 117). The 
nine quills here are also of high quality, 
worth 2 gp each. 

The doorways open into the central labo 
ratory. Under a workbench, in the middle of 
the north wall, lurks a roper, hidden amidst 
materials and apparatus. It may attack 
when two or more victims are within 20' 
range; if others are approaching, it waits for 
up to six targets. The roper is large, very 
mean, and hungry, it managed to get in 
through flues and chimneys, but cannot 
now escape. It fears the ettin (in area 306) 
and so hides when it comes by, but has 
picked off a few hapless bugbears sent here 
from below to fetch magical goodies. The 
remains of its prey are in area 331. Note that 
the roper has 80% magic resistance, but is 
susceptible to fire (-4 saving throw penalty). 
It has 13 gems in its gut, each worth 50 gp 


(five bloodstones, two jaspers, and six zir 
cons), along with the usual 3-18 pp. 

Roper: AC 0; MV 3"; HD 12; hp 71; #AT 1; 
D 5-20; SA 6 strands (range 20-50', poi 
son for 50% strength loss in 1-3 rounds); 
SD body mutability, immune to electric 
ity, half damage from cold; MR 80%; 
XP 3886 


This inner chamber is obviously an 
abandoned laboratory for magical 
research and experimentation. Four long 
benches in this 80' x 20 area are filled 
with paraphernalia of all kinds. A flow 
ing fountain of water is in the southwest 
corner, but almost all of the rest of the 
wall is taken up by shelves supporting all 
sorts of containers-bottles, jars, boxes, 
baskets, jugs, flasks, vials, etc., of all 
shapes and sizes. These hold magical 
ingredients of virtually every imaginable 
sort, from rare herbs and spices to mon 
ster parts and fluids. Included are ape 
teeth, basilisk scales, cockatrice feathers, 
elephant hide, fox dung, gorgon tongue, 
hydra blood, and other materials, of all 
sorts of colors and consistencies. Cup 
boards sometimes replace open shelves. 
Many open bins are also built into the 
shelves; these contain different sorts of 
earth, seeds, bits of fur, dried leaves of 
various sorts, flower petals, bark chips, 
and metals of various forms and types- 
including rods, wire, small ingots, thin 
strips, chunks, filings, and powder of 
iron, brass, tin, lead, zinc, bronze, steel, 
and others unknown to you. 


The paraphernalia on the benches con 
sists of the following items; 


First Bench Second Bench 


bellows 

balance 

bottles 

bowls 

cannisters 

knife 

crucible 

mirror 

file 

mortar 

flasks 

pans 

funnel 

pestle 

furnace 

phials 

ladle 

sandglass 

metal ingots 

tongs 

retorts 

vials 

tweezers 

weights 


83 




















































Third Bench Fourth Bench 


basins 

alembics 

beakers 

cauldron 

caddy 

cruets 

dishes 

decanter 

jars 

jars 

i u g 

lenses 

kettle 

mixing rods 

pipette 

needles 

prisms 

paddle 

spatula 

scalpel 

spirit lamp 

spoons 

tubes 

tubing 


The: unknown metals include aluminum, 
magnesium, tungsten, and others. Each 300 
gp encumbrance of materials (contained in a 
backpack, for example) is worth 1,000 gp if 
carefully selected, half that if carelessly 
scooped up, or double value if painstak 
ingly chosen (requiring a full man-turn per 
pack). A maximum of 1500 gp encumbrance 
of valuables can be thus gathered. 

One pack of these materials will produce 
1-4 needed or useful items (such as magical 
components for spells, potions, and scrolls). 
To determine suitability for any given use, 
have the player state what specific item is 
sought, and roll ld6; the sought item is 
found on a 1. (You may allow specific search 
for and discovery of powdered gems, types 
of blood, or other unusual items specified 
by players. If so, allow one chance in 12 per 
man-turn of search for discovery of an eas 
ily recognized item, or the same chance for 
other items but counting only those magic- 
users searching.) The alcoves to the east 
area are described below. 

330a. NORTHERN ALCOVE 


This 10' square room contains tripods, 
quadrapods, lamps, plumb lines, dividers, 
candles of different sizes, shapes, and col 
ors, chalk of all sorts, paints of many hues, 
and metal devices-small distillers, melt 
ing pots, etc. 


330b. SOUTHERN ALCOVE 


This 10' square room contains a long 
table heaped with many lengths of plain 
linen. A magical circle is drawn around 
the table on the floor. On the shelves are 
many body parts and monsters' organs, 
each preserved in some solution in a jar 
or tank. Here are also scalpels, knives, 


saws, needles, and thread. Several books 
and scrolls lie on one of the shelves. 


Under the linens is a construct, a vaguely 
humanoid monster created with various 
parts of beasts and monsters. It was begun 
as a joke, but wasn't finished, due to the fall 
of the Temple. It has an ogre's head and 
torso, gargoyle forelimbs, bear forelimbs, a 
bugbear s lower limbs, and the brains of a 
chipmunk. 

The books deal with the anatomy of vari 
ous creatures, theories of magical con 
structs, a treatise on the original flesh golem 
(dealing only with its nature, not a method 
of construction), and medical works. One 
of the scrolls is quite dangerous; if scanned 
for even a brief time, it summons a babau 
demon (hp 43). Two spell scrolls are here, 
one of four magic-user spells (magic mouth, 
fly, charm monster, polymorph other) and 
one of three cleric spells (animate dead, 
raise dead, restoration). 

The practical joke was to run as follows. 
Use the animate dead to bring the 
chipmunk-brained monster to life. A magic- 
user then controls the thing (else it will 
scurry off in abject terror, chittering away 
with its great ogrish jaws, possibly harming 
someone in its path of retreat), applying a 
magic mouth and using charm monster for 
control. Cause the creature to fly out into 
the lab while another mage was at work, 
claim (with the magic mouth) to be a demon 
coming to punish some transgression, and 
change itself into the victim s form (actually 
being polymorphed by the controlling 
mage). All parties then sit back to watch the 
fun. In any event, if the animate dead is 
applied to the body, it rises and behaves in a 
manner appropriate to its chipmunk brains, 
and should serve to amuse the players (and 
yourself, of course!) for some time. 

331. STOREROOM 


A few remaining containers and bales 
indicate that this place was once one in 
which mundane items were stored. It 
now contains a number of gnawed 
bones, torn garments, and broken weap 
ons; the latter items have been tossed 
into a pile. Someone or something has 
purposely used this place as a grisly 
repository for unwanted remains of 
meals. 



The containers have been emptied of ail 
valuable and usable materials. One holds 
wormy meal, another vinegar. The bones 
are primarily from bugbears, though the 
remains of an ogre, a gnoll, and a human 
skull are also here. 

332. MUSEUM ROOM 

A lurker above dwells here. It was set as 
the guardian of the place by luz himself, just 
before he fled back to his own realm. As 
usual for its kind, the lurker will attack 
without hesitation and fight until dead. 

Lurker Above: AC 6; MV l "/9 "; HD 10; 
hp 56; #AT 1; D 1-6; SA surprise on 1-4, 
SD 90% undetectable while motionless, 
prey cannot fight except with short stab 
bing weapons; XP 2284 


This 30' square room contains many 
exhibits of grim sort, hung on the walls 
or displayed in glass cases. Here are 
heads of all sorts, a few skulls, withered 
and bony hands, flayed skins, banners of 
many types, several plain crowns for 
wear atop helm or helmet, holy symbols 
of Good deities, surcoats, jupons, tab 
ards bearing arms and shields with like 
decorations, and small items such as 
rings, seals, and sigils. One case bears 
several maces and similar items, though 
these are obviously ceremonial and not 
meant for use as weapons. Cabinets in 
the center of the room are smashed and 
broken; many bones litter the floor. 


The five plain crowns are only worth 1 gp 
each. One platinum ring is set with a fine 
diamond (total value 9,000 gp), and 10 of 
the rings are of value as jewelry (base value 
1,000 - 4,000 gp each). One of the ceremonial 
maces is solid silver, set with many gems. Its 
value is 12, 500 gp as is, or 6, 750 gp if dis 
mantled and sold for the value of the bullion 
(750 gp) and gems (60 worth 100 gp each, 
including equal numbers of amethysts, gar 
nets, and tourmalines). 

333. CHAPEL 


The black stone of this small area is 
draped with several white hangings, one 
edged in purple, one fringed with gold, 
and one cornered in silver. A small altar 
here is made of wood, painted white; 


85 










nearby is a reliquary, containing ashes of 
some sort. A silver votive lamp hangs 
over the altar. Upon the altar is a snowy 
cloth with red runes, stating (in Com 
mon): 


"VENERATE THIS SHRINE OF 
GOOD, THEN HASTE AWAY, ALL YE 
OF TRUE AND GOOD FAITH!" 


Affixed to the west (diagonal) wall is a sil 
ver cross, 2 feet across and 3 feet long. In the 
center of the northern wall is a small niche, 
in which stands a silver idol of Pholtus. 

This room bears no magic, but evil can be 
detected to the west. The trappings here are 
to delude those of Good alignment, while 
the silver is to discourage any demons from 
going places they should not. The silver 
lamp is worth 100 gp; the cross weighs 300 
gp, and is worth 400 gp. The idol of Pholtus 
is worth 875 gp. 

334. INKY CHAMBER 


This bare hexagonal room is dusty, cob- 
webbed, and forgotten. Near the door is 
a rag-clad skeleton-probably some 
cleric who met his end herein, from 
unknown causes. The remains obviously 
harbor no treasure. A vague feeling of 
unease creeps over all who gaze into this 
place of darkness overlong. The place is 
empty. 


if magic is detected for, a strong pulse 
comes from the northwest; if evil is sought, 
the whole room is found to give off a dim 
radiation of malign power. If the place is 
investigated, continue: 


A black iron coffin stands by the north 
west wall; its iron lid, in which a silver 
cross has been inlaid, lies beside it. Atop 
the lid is a forgotten scroll case. 


An invisible sarcophagus is on the stand. 
Dispel magic, detect invisibility, dispel illu 
sion, or dust of appearance reveals the fol 
lowing: 


The sarcophagus has no top. You see a 
vampire corpse, clad in black and 
appearing hale-except for the stake 
through its heart. 


This is an illusion. A gem of seeing, true 
seeing, or similar effect reveals the true 
occupant; see below for details. Similar 
magic also reveals that the silver cross in the 
coffin lid is a magical broadsword (Fra- 
garach, fully described in Appendix C). 

The scroll tube contains two scraps of 
parchment. One is a scroll of two magic- 
user spells (both strength); the other is a 
message: "Let the Good ones use their new 
found strength to seal in the horror of dark 
ness to prove their faithfulness to right and 
justice. We who wrote this lacked the power 
to do so." Of course, it is a ghastly jape at the 
forces of Good. If the coffin's occupant is 
viewed truly, use the following description. 


Your powerful magic reveals a figure 
completely different from the vampire 
form. You see a handsome mail-clad 
human man with golden hair. He is clad 
in a white surcoat, quartered by the arms 
of Furyondy and Veluna and the antlers 
of the Knights of the Hart, in red. He 
wears a gold belt at his waist, with a dag 
ger. About his neck is a gold chain with 
an emblem of a crown and crescent 
moon; on his left hand is a gold ring with 
a similar device. His shield rests under 
his feet. 


The coffin's occupant is Prince Throm- 
mel. Grand Marshall of Furyondy, Provost 
of Veluna, a Paladin Lord. He lies in stasis, a 
powerful illusion causing him to appear as a 
vampire. His gold belt is worth 500 gp; the 
dagger thereon is a dagger + 2/ + 3 vs. large 
opponents. His neckchain with amulet is 
worth 2,000 gp, the matching ring worth 
250 gp. 

If taken from the chamber, Thrommel 
awakens, but is groggy for 1-4 turns, uncer 
tain about his identity and past. He regains 
all his faculties thereafter, becoming cau 
tious, circumspect, and taciturn. If the 
broadsword Fragarach is in sight, he simply 
speaks-and it comes to his hand. If it was 
left behind, he is not aware of its location, 
but asks if he was wearing one when found, 
or whether one was nearby. In any event, he 
asks to be accompanied to the surface; once 
there, he asks for a horse, claiming urgent 
business elsewhere. If any one character is 
exceptionally good to him, he gives that 
person his medallion, as a gift. Anyone 
more than normally polite and helpful to 
him receives his ring. Thrommel then rides 
off. 



All of Thrommel's rescuers are later 
sought out by a strong party of humans and 
elves (including clerics, magic-users, fight 
ers, and men-at-arms) some 5-8 week later. 
These persons ask the characters to accom 
pany them to Mitrik, chief city of Veluna, 
where Thrommel is pledging himself to her 
Noble Ladyship Jolene of Veluna. At this 
ceremony, each character is knighted (if a 
fighter) or made an elder of the land (for all 
other classes). Each is entitled to wear the 
silver star badge of Veluna and the gold 
crown badge of Furyondy. In addition, each 
receives a potion of extra-healing, a ring of 
protection + 1, and 2,000 pp. The most 
helpful character (given Thrommel's medal 
lion) is also granted one of the following, as 
applicable to the class: a book of 12 first 
level Magic-User spells, a necklace of prayer 
beads, a shield + 1, ora bag of holding (500 
pound capacity). The second most helpful 
rescuer (holder of the ring) receives a war- 
horse appropriate to the class. If any char 
acter recovered the broadsword Fragarach 
and was gladly willing to allow or help 
Thrommel to regain it, that person receives 
the broadsword Scather (also detailed in 
Appendix C) from Prince Thrommel. All 
rescuers are also honored by those who rule 
Furyondy and Veluna. 

335. SECRET PASSAGE 

This area may be approached either from 
the secret trap door above (area 313) or the 
escape tunnel from outer works (area 4 of 
the Broken Tower). To run the following 
encounters properly, you must be familiar 
with all the details of this lair and the occu 
pants of areas 336 and 337. Review the notes 
before starting. The occupants should be 
played with intelligence; they should be 
very dangerous. 


The secret passage leads into a 20' x 30' 
room where you are horrified-perhaps 
petrified-to see a huge pale green basi 
lisk gazing at you. 


The lead character must make a saving 
throw vs. petrification. Almost simultane 
ously, a runnel of flame appears; read from 
the passage below. The basilisk is illusory; if 
disbelief is attempted and the saving throw 
made, it is seen as such, and this fact can be 
communicated to others, making them 
immune to the effect. If the saving throw is 
failed, the victim is petrified, despite the 


86 











illusory nature of the beast. The basilisk 
gazes at one victim per round. 


A runnel of flame begins from the east 
ern portion of the chamber and spreads 
rapidly from the center, going both north 
and south. The moving flame creates a 
line of brightness along the east and west 
walls of the place, and then sends fiery 
streams into a pair of large cressets just at 
the corners where the north and south 
passages enter the basilisk's lair. The 
cressets spring into leaping flames, illu 
minating the whole area. 


An unseen servant was commanded to 
empty a container of volatile oil into a slop 
ing trough, highest above a wall fountain 
and basin on the east wall. Another unseen 
servant strikes a light to cause the oil to 
flame, and gravity does the rest, if any sig 
nificant amount of noise is produced by the 
party at this time, the occupants of areas 
336 and 337 are alerted. If the party is abso 
lutely quiet, those occupants might (10%) 
be warned; if nearly quiet, use 30%. The 
local inhabitants work together to insure 
their very lives. 

336. NORTH ROOM 

Herein dwells Smigmal Redhand, a half- 
ore Fighter/Assassin. She is the leman of 
Falrinth (in area 337) and leader of the band 
of brigands in the outer ruins (Tower). Upon 
hearing noise in the basilisk area, she dons 
her ring of spell storing (of five invisibility 
spells) and carefully opens the door a crack 
to see what is happening. If opportunity 
presents itself, she uses one of the ring's 
charges, creeps out and tries to assassinate 
the most powerful-appearing of the 
intruders, attacking from behind the victim. 

Smigmal is disguised as an elf, and if cap 
tured when appearing (due to her attack) 
will try to dupe the party into believing that 
she is charmed or otherwise forced to 
attack, believing intruders to be nasty 
invaders. If this also seems to fail, she tries 
to use invisibility to escape, climbs a wall, 
and hides in overhead shadows. 

Smigmal Redhand: AC 4 (leather +1) Ik 
shield +2), MV 12", Level 7/7 Fighter/ 
Assassin, hp 41, XP4924 S 17 I 15 W 7 
D 16 Co 17 Ch 14 #AT 3/2, D 3-8, 
SA poison on sword (insinuative type B, 
+ 3 bonus to saving throw, Dmg 25 in 2 




rounds), SD ring of invisibility; Thief 
Abilities: PP 45, OL 52, F/RT45, MS 40, 
HS 31, HN 25, CW 95, RL 15 

Smigmal wears leather armor + I, uses a 
shield + 2, and wields a shortsword + 1 in 
normal combat (or a non-glowing normal 
shortsword in assassination attempts). She 
is thoroughly evil, and loves her work. She 
hungers for power to make humans suffer, 
and hates her human ancestry. She sees 
Falrinth as her tool, the one who will best 
aid her in gaining her power. She will fight 
to protect Falrinth if such action appears 
worthwhile, but will certainly try to save 
herself from certain death. Smigmal wears 
two earrings (each worth 400 gp) and a jew 
eled belt (3,200 gp), and carries 7 gp and 12 
ep in a purse. She knows how most crea 
tures react favorably to bloodstones, and 
has been trading for and accumulating such 
for future purposes (see chest, below). 


This plainly furnished 20' square room 
is obviously the residence of someone 
interested in weapons of unusual sorts. 
Hanging on the wall are a man-catcher 
and several sorts of punching daggers 
(sprouting from metal gauntlets, double- 
bladed with sharkskin crossgrip, and 
others). Here are wavy-bladed knives, 
double-pointed knives, center-hilted 
knives, falchions, and a semicircle of 
seven matched throwing knives around a 
buckler with a wicked center spike. 
Barbed javelins, a short spear with a 
very broad leaf-shaped blade (capable of 
dealing an axe-like blow), an array of 
maces with oddly shaped heads (a wolf 
with an open mouth, a clenched dracon 
ian forepaw, and others) are also here. A 
light crossbow with a double track, for 
firing a pair of bolts simultaneously, 
hangs on one wall. Furnishings include a 
narrow cot, a small stand, a table, two 
chairs, a bench, a stool, a bucket with 
lid, a wardrobe, and a heavy chest with 
iron hasp and padlock. Dishes and food 
stuffs are on the table and on a nearby 
shelf. Several bottles are also on the 
shelf. 


No weapons here are magical. The cross 
bow has only half normal range, but a single 
"to hit" roll is made for both bolts. It loads 
as if a heavy crossbow. 

Details on the garrot, mancatcher, spiked 
buckler, and falchion sword can be found in 


the ADfkD(r) UNEARTHED ARCANA 
book. Details of other new weapons can be 
extrapolated from existing similar types. 

The wardrobe holds normal clothing of 
various sorts (merchant's, laborer's, and 
others). The chest contains more such gar 
ments, garrets, a vial of acid (standard 8 
ounces, D 2-8 as a hurled missile), a potion 
of polymorphing, and a leather case of six 
small bottles-four of ingestive poisons 
(types A, B, C, D) and two of insinuative 
(types B and C). The chest has a false top; its 
catch is protected by a needle trap coated 
with insinuative poison type D (save or die). 
In the secret compartment are 30 gems 
worth 50 gp each (26 bloodstones and four 
zircons), two pieces of jewelry (base value 
1,000-4,000 gp each), and a belt with hidden 
pockets (containing 50 pp). 

337. SOUTH ROOM 

Falrinth, an 8th level magic-user, lives 
here with Kriitch, his familiar (a quasit). He 
functions as 9th level while Kriitch remains 
within one mile. Falrinth is very evil and 
power-mad. When he becomes aware of 
intruders, he has Kriitch investigate in giant 
centipede form. It can travel by way of a 
small twisting aperture in the wall, and 
Falrinth can telepathically use its senses, 
viewing the intruders' actions from a dis 
tance while keeping the centipede (quasit) 
well hidden. He can then select an appropri 
ate course of action (hit-and-run, offensive, 
defensive, or whatever) based on the 
intruders' powers. While Kriitch remains 
within 10 feet of Falrinth, each has 25% 
Magic Resistance and regenerates 1 hp per 
round, if Kriitch is slain, Falrinth immedi 
ately drops to Level 4 (retaining only five 
spells-three of first level, two of second) 
and flees. 

Falrinth: AC 3 (bracers of defense), MV 12", 
Level 8 Magic-User (Level 9 with familiar), 
hp 27, #AT 1, D 2-5, SA spells, SD regener 
ate 1 hp per round, MR25%; XP4024 S 10 
I 17 W 10 D 17 Co 15 Ch 12 

Kriitch: AC 2, MV 15 ", HD 3, hp 16, #AT 3, 
D 1-2/1-2/1-4, SA claw poison (save or 
lose 1 point Dexterity for 2-12 rounds), 
fear blast once per day (30 1 radius), 
SD 25% MR, regenerate 1 hp/round, hit 
only by iron or magic weapons, immune 
to cold, fire, and lightning; XP 373 
Falrinth's memorized spells are: 


87 







First level: burning hands, charm person, 
hold portal, jump 

Second level: darkness, 15' radius, mirror 
image, Tasha's uncontrollable hideous 
laughter* 

Third level: hold person, invisibility 10 
radius, lightning bolt 

Fourth level: dimension door, minor globe 
of invulnerability 

Fifth level: wall offeree (from level gain due 
to familiar) 

See Appendix D for details. 

Typical offensive strategy: Cast minor 
globe and mirror image on self, ready hold, 
to be followed by charm and then Tasha's or 
burning hands. Typical defensive strategies: 
Jump to escape a tight spot. Darkness and/ 
or invisibility to allow retreat to area 337, 
with hold portal on the door; continuing to 
area 338 by the secret door, blocking the 
passage by wall offeree (placed just inside 
the room to block even the finding of the 
secret door) and gathering prized items. If 
on the verge of discovery, Falrinth will 
dimension door to one of two passages- 
either the corridor east of area 313, or the 
secret passage to the Tower or outside exit. 
Falrinth does not dare to remain in the Tem 
ple after defeat; he has too many enemies. 
He plans to use Smigmal as a tool to achieve 
control of the remaining Temple forces, so 
he can become ruler of a domain of death 
and destruction equalling, even surpassing, 
that of luz (Ambitious, indeed!). Kriitch is a 
gift from the demoness Lolth, who is happy 
to have catspaws in Zuggtmoy's territory 
(for obvious reasons). Falrinth has devised 
the traps and fake lair (337a) to fool 
intruders who are too powerful to defeat 
offensively. He wears bracers of defense AC 
6, and carries a purse containing nine gems 
worth a total of 1,350 gp (two moss agates, 
two white pearls, three hematites, a sap 
phire and a tourmaline). 


This room is obviously the chamber of a 
magic-user. A thaumaturgic triangle 
stands at the threshold. The shelving 
which girdles the place is filled with all 
sorts of stuffed and mummified animals 
and such. A cloak with strange runes 
hangs near the east door. A large bed is 
here, with a small cabinet, a stool, a 
writing table with an oddly branched 
candle holder, a brazier, and a pair of 
hanging lamps near the bed. A wall cres 



set is in the southeast corner, opposite 
the bed. A rush mat covers the plain 
floor. A parchment with runes hangs on 
the east wall, by a door; another, on the 
south wall opposite the entrance, seems 
to be a map of the dungeon level. 


The south parchment is trapped with 
explosive runes, only detectable by thieves 
or magic-users (the former having a mere 
5% chance, the latter 5% per level), if read 
by anyone but Falrinth or Smigmal (or oth 
ers they instruct), the runes detonate, 
inflicting 12-30 points of fire damage 
(6d4 + 6) to the reader (no saving throw) 
and to each creature within 10 feet (save vs. 
spells for half damage). The explosion 
destroys the map. The runes can only be 
removed by a dispel magic spell. 

The map shows no secret doors or secret 
passages, but reveals everything else in this 
area and areas 301-320, including residents. 
It does not show areas 321-334 (those 
accessed by the the doors in area 306, except 
the southernmost). The parchment on the 
east wall seems to be a dire warning not to 
touch the east door, if read, the warning 
also contains another set of explosive runes 
(see above for details). The east door leads, 
of course, to area 337a. The cabinet con 
tains clothing and several books, unremark 
able works of history and botany. The odd 
candle holder is an ancient work in elec- 
trum, worth 1,500 gp. The southeast wall 
cresset operates the secret door. 

337a. EAST ROOM 


The door to the east opens into a 10 
square workroom. Inside are a few bot 
tles containing various spell compo 
nents, a bench, six staves of various 
woods, and six metal, bone, and ivory 
rods. A shelf holds nine wands. Here is 
also a brass chest, protected by a lock, 
iron binding, and hasp with large pad 
lock. 


The spell components are only common 
sorts in small quantities-phosphorus, sul 
fur, a lodestone, etc. Each of the wands has 
been treated with Nystul's magic aura and 
thus seems valuable. Three potions are on 
the shelf-diminution, healing, and delu 
sion of treasure finding. 

The chest is rigged so that a cloud of chlo 
rine gas erupts when it is opened; each crea 



ture within 5 feet must make a saving throw 
vs. poison, with a + 3 bonus, or die. The 
cloud appears however carefully the chest is 
opened, and this trap cannot be removed. 
The chest contains books filled with written 
gibberish and a papyrus scroll of similar 
content; these items dissolve in the gas 
cloud. The remnants seem to be those of 
spell books and a magical scroll. 

338. HIDDEN ROOM 


This lO' x 30' room is certainly where 
the magic-user inhabiting the room to 
the north actually studied his works. 
Here are all manner of magical appa 
ratus. To the north, a workbench runs 
about 15 feet along the wall near the 
door. The wall here is lined in shelves, 
with all sorts of bins and containers. 
Over a small fireplace hang several ket 
tles; a brazier, furnace, and bellows are 
nearby. Along the south wall is a high 
writing desk, flanked by a pair of book 
stands, each with an unopened tome. 

At the far end of the room are a table, 
high-backed chair, and an open cabinet. 
Upon the table are a green cup, an iron 
box, a scattering of gems, several potion 
bottles, and a leather case. The cabinet 
holds three iron coffers, a crystal ball, a 
tall pointed black hat, a box of reddish 
wood, a long brass wand, five large 
books, and a small ceramic statuette. 


Falrinth may still be here when characters \ 
arrive; if so, he is hiding in the east end of 
the room, ready to leave (by dimension 
door) if his discovery is imminent or obvi 
ous. The cabinet also holds three ivory 
scroll tubes unless Falrinth has taken them. 

The volumes on the bookstands are 
bound in leather and bronze, and are magi 
cal. The westernmost is a tome ofleadership 
and influence; the eastern, a vacuous gri- 
moire. (Falrinth was afraid to open either 
one). The bins and containers hold various 
spell components (taken from the lab, area 
330), worth 6,000 gp (900 gp volume). 

The cup on the table is jade, worth 100 
gp. Falrinth may have taken two gems (a 
fire opal and star ruby, each worth 1,000 
gp). Nine other gems remain-a tiger eye, 
moss agate, amber, amethyst, jasper, white 
pearl, pink pearl, topaz, and zircon (the first 
two worth 10 gp each, the topaz 500 gp, and 
each of the others 100 gp). 

Falrinth may have taken a potion ofspeed 


88 








y&fftf&i 




l^vSiSk, 'v\; 


IHlltei 


;#"$$ w*> 








from this table; other remaining are potions 
of ESP, flying, and sweet water. The leather 
case holds a wand of a wonder with 50 
charges. 

The iron box on the table contains the 
Orb of Golden Death. The Orb is a gold 
sphere shaped to resemble a human skull 
without its lower jaw. It radiates evil so 
strongly that Paladins and Good clerics are 
unable even to touch it (or even the box). 
Anyone grasping the device gains certain 
magical powers, and instantly knows how 
to summon them forth from the Orb: detect 
lie, know alignment, and poison. These 
powers may be used without limit as long as 
the Orb is held. The holder can also cause 
the great throne in area 10 (of the Upper 
Temple) to raise and lower. The user's Cha 
risma is affected, and other unique details 
apply; see Appendix C for more details. 

The three iron coffers in the cabinet con 
tain 107 pp, 310 gO, and 228 ep, respec 
tively. The crystal is a crystal hypnosis ball 
attuned to Zuggtmoy. The pointed hat bears 
cryptic runes; it has no cash value, but is 
easily recognized by all of Falrinth's associ 
ates, and others throughout the dungeon. 
The ceramic statue is of a frog alone, if 
Falrinth has gathered his items. Intact, it 
represents a frog eating an insect, the latter 
being an ebony fly. 

The reddish wood box is an unfolding 
shrine, inlaid with gold, with a black inte 
rior upon which is inlaid a silver spiderweb, 
mother-of-pearl stars, and a garnet orb. As 
the doors of the shrine unfold, an ebony 
statuette of Lolth rises from a cavity in the 
base to stand before the web. This icon is 
worth 6,000gp, but should be destroyed by 
Good characters. 

Part of the back of the cabinet radiates 
magic, but the magical mirror contained 
therein can only be obtained by use of the 
brass rod. The tip of this wand-thick object 
is oddly notched, and may be used to open 
the side of the cabinet, allowing the mirror 
of mental prowess contained therein to slide 
out for use. Without this key, the mirror will 
be destroyed in any attempt to remove it, 
whatever care is taken. The five large books 
are bound in strange leather, clasped with 
iron, and locked. These are Falrinth's 
spellbooks, their contents listed below. 

Each of the three scroll tubes in the cabi 
net (missing if Falrinth has escaped with 
them) contains a scroll of seven spells. This 
is a selection from Falrinth's spellbooks, 
which he can use to start new ones if neces 




sary. The spells on these scrolls are noted 
with asterisks hereafter. 

Book 1: affect normal fires, "burning 
hands, "charm person, compre 
hend languages, dancing lights, 
* detect magic, enlarge, hold por 
tal, jump, message, Nystul's 
magic aura, push, read magic, 
unseen servant, ventriloquism, 
"write 

Book 2: continual light, "darkness 15' 
radius, ESP, fools gold, forget, 
"irritation, "levitate, "mirror 
image, rope trick, Tasha's uncon 
trollable hideous laughter, "wiz 
ard lock 

Book 3: clairaudience, flame arrow, "hold 
person, * invisibility 10 radius, 
"lightning bolt, "protection from 
evil 10' radius, "tongues, water 
breathing 

Book 4: "dimension door, "extension 2, 
"fire trap, "minor globe of invul 
nerability, "monster summoning 
11, wizard eye 

Book 5: contact other plane, "wall offeree 

THE INTERDICTED PRISON 
OF ZUGGTMOY 

Afore that the methods of arriving in this 
area are limited. Be sure you are familiar 
with all of these means, as well as the vari 
ous statistics on Zuggtmoy (imprisoned and 
freed) before allowing any character to 
enter this area. 

339. HALL OF ELEMENTAL MAGIC 


This huge echoing hall is constructed of 
polished black stones, which give back 
odd reflections of your light. The most 
striking features here are the symbols set 
into the chamber floor. 

To the north is a triangle of dull ecru 
stone, outlined with some sort of gray 
metal; a throbbing radiance seems to 
spread in dun-colored pulses that wash 
over the area. To the east is a great 10' 
square of translucent stone, blue at the 
edges and shading to a deep green at the 


center, bordered by a strip of pale green; 
the whole gives out undulating sheets of 
blue-green light. To the south is a circle 
of translucent crystal ringed by a silvery 
band; the whole sends forth slowly rising 
clouds of pale light, that spread and dis 
appear. To the west is a long diamond 
shape with four points radiating from the 
sides of the lozenge. The whole is fash 
ioned of translucent stone mottled red 
and amber, outlined in red gold. It sends 
up sudden tongues of brightness, planes 
of pale fiery light that vanish as quickly 
as they appear. 

All of these radiations gleam from the 
walls and floor of the hall. Any object in 
the center of the four symbols shows the 
four different illuminations, and the 
ghastly purple of their mix. If you look 
upward long enough, occasional glints 
of light can be seen from the vaulted ceil 
ing, that peaks 60' or more overhead. 
The 30' wide aisle to the west appears to 
be the only entrance to the place. 


Both evil and magic can be found here. 
The magic radiates from the floor symbols, 
the evil from everywhere. Any creature 
who steps into the area of an elemental sym 
bol and stands there for 3 segments is trans 
ported to the corresponding Elemental 
Node: the Air Cavern (circle), the Earth 
Burrows (triangle), the Fire Pits (lozenge), 
or Water Maze (square). The only way to 
escape therefrom is to win through to 
another "gate" area or to possess the com 
plete Orb of Golden Death, inset with all 
four proper gems. 

Zuggtmoy once used the symbols to visit 
the Elemental Nodes, and to send screaming 
sacrificial victims to their dooms in these 
places. Now, however, the demoness is pre 
vented from entering this hall until all four 
of the sealed portals are broken. If this has 
been done, she will certainly come here to 
thank her liberators, in her own way. If 
Zuggtmoy is destroyed, the symbols lose 
their magic, and the Elemental Nodes them 
selves wink out of existence, destroying eve 
rything within them at that moment. 

340. THE HALL OF DREAD 


This place is horrible and disgusting, 
loathsome and fearsome. The stonework 
seems leprous and mottled. Everywhere 
are sculpted fungous shapes of night- 


90 







mare form and coloration. Each column 
rising to the roof above writhes and 
squirms with intertwined fungi. The 
walls drip with slimes and ooze revolting 
exudations. The bizarre reds, disgusting 
yellows, rotten grays and browns, nau 
seous greens, and hideous blues blend in 
a vertiginous swirl in the center of the 
northern part of the place, wherein 
squats a huge sprawling purple throne. 

This great chair is sculpted to display 
fungi and human forms, but those 
depicted are shown crying out in pain as 
fungi shoot up from their flesh, feed 
upon their dead and decomposing 
bodies, or grow rampant in their bony 
remains. Even the shape of the throne is 
abominable; its seat is broad and round, 
with a concave surface and four hemi 
spherical indentations, two in front, two 
behind, it has wide arm rests but no back 
whatsoever, it stands upon a four-tiered 
dais, the top and 2' high steps of which 
are carved in bas-relief to depict fungi, 
smut, slimes, molds, jellies, and other 
horrible growths devouring a compacted 
mass of living and dead humans. 

The demoness must have used this 
area to view captives and servants, the 
former going to whatever unspeakable 
fates awaited them, the latter exalting in 
the fact that no similar prospect awaited 
them, as long as they served Zuggtmoy 
well. 

Projections resembling blighted vege 
tation line the walls, and each gives off a 
dim but pervasive illumination. Passages 
and doors are in the east and south walls. 
Twin valves of bronze in the middle of 
the south wall accompany twins of gates 
found elsewhere in the dungeon, com 
plete with bindings and silvery glowing 
runes. To the west, a 20' broad flight of 
serpentine steps leads down into a high- 
domed chamber, filled with dim but 
multi-hued light continually changing in 
color and intensity. 


The large bronze doors have, of course, a 
permanent antipathy spell upon them; all 
those failing any previous saving throw 
against this effect are unable to approach 
within ten feet of these doors. They are 
bound in the standard fashion-chained, 
locked, sealed with soft iron, and bearing 
the deeply cut sequence of warning runes. 
The secret door in the southwest corner can 
not be opened from this area except by mag 



ical means. Zuggtmoy cannot enter this 
Audience Hall unless three gates have been 
sundered: the Grand Entrance (above 
ground, area 1), Earth Temple (area 145), 
and Octagonal Chamber (210). 

341. PLACE OF EARTH AND GOLDEN 
CHAINS 


This 30 x 40 chamber is a strange 
composite of polished pink stone, golden 
chains, and a floor of loose earth. Deep 
black earth covers the entire floor, save 
for a four-foot-wide walkway which 
edges the room. The bright metal chains 
hang from the walls, affixed by rings to 
the walkway as well. The room is dark; 
the walls show neither cressets nor 
sconces. 


Six violet fungi spring up from the center 
of the earthen area. Each is seven feet tall, 
with four branches of 4 length; they all 
move to attack any creature on or near the 
earthen area. As they do so, a forest of 50 
small toadstool-like growths also spring up. 
These have mock "faces and eyes, which 
seem to follow their dangerous kin in their 
attempt to enrich the loam with human 
flesh. Whenever a fungus strikes a blow, a 
happy hooting sounds from the cavities 
pocking the caps of these monstrous specta 
tors. 

if the violet fungi are all slain, the other 
fungi all puff forth small spore clouds to a 6 
foot range, attacking as 3 Hit Die monsters; 
a victim hit is blinded for 1-4 rounds (no 
saving throw). Any blow or kick will 
destroy one of these lesser fungi, and a 
bright light (such as light or continual light 
spell) will shrivel them all in but a single 
round. 

Violet Fungi (6); AC 7, MV I", HD 3, hp 24 
each, #AT 4, D 0 + rot (save vs. poison 
or die); XP 231 each (x6) 

Hooting Fungi (50): automatically hit, MV 
0, HD 1/8 hp 1 each, #AT 1, D blindness 
1-4 rounds (6 foot range); XP 8 each 
(x50) 

If the earthen floor is searched, it is found 
to be 4 feet deep, damp, loose, and rich. 
Hidden in the exact center, under the dirt, is 
an ivory case (1,400 gp value) containing a 
wand of illumination (44 charges). 



342. ROOM OF CROWNED SKULLS 


The plastered walls of this 30' x 20' 
room are decorated with many murals, 
depicting scenes in which humans, demi- 
humans, and humanoids are being robed 
in finery of various sorts and given 
crowns of gold, adorned by devices of 
skulls. Above all are paintings of a 
golden-skull wearing a silvery crown, in 
which are set gems of red, blue-green, 
crystal, and orange-brown. The floor is 
tiled in black and yellow squares each a 
foot across. The south wall shows scenes 
of elemental devastation, and undereach 
depiction is a chair. Save for cressets, the 
room is otherwise bare. 


343. HALL OF MERRIMENT 


The plastered walls here show scenes of 
revelry and debauchery, involving coro 
nated individuals similar to those in the 
previous chamber. Those rewarded in 
the antechamber were evidently taken 
here to be feted. Couches, cushions, and 
pillows surround small tables. The place 
is in disorder, as if those once here left 
hurriedly. Several stands are tipped over, 
as are chairs; stains on the carpets show 
where food and drink were spilled and 
never cleaned. Dishes, ewers, and drink 
ing vessels lie in scattered profusion. All 
of the furnishings are of excellent work 
manship and materials, but all are dis 
gusting in what they depict. The walls 
have many cressets, and bronze candela 
bra and hanging lamps are in the cor 
ners. 


344. ROOM OF DEMONS 


This plastered room is decorated with 
wall murals. All show demons of lesser 
sorts paying homage to humans of evil 
mien. Here are also scenes of killing and 
destruction, obviously showing the 
deeds which made such homage due. A 
plain armchair of black wood is centered 
against the east wall, opposite a 10' wide 
exit to the west. Many bronze cressets 
line the walls, but no other furniture is 
here. 


91 











345. HALL OF GLORY 


The walls of this 20' x 40' room are 
frescoed. Two suits of plate armor hang 
from each long wall, north and south; 
each is of black metal, enameled with 
strange glyphs in pigments of red, white, 
green, and brown, surrounding a golden 
skull. The armor is strangely fluted and 
spiked; the helmets are wrought to give 
the wearer a most frightening appear 
ance. Each of the four suits of armor also 
bears a huge two-handed sword. 


These four suits of animated armor guard 
this room, attacking all those who enter. 
They are immune to all magic, but can be 
struck by any sort of weapon. They fight 
mindlessly, until destroyed, to prevent 
intruders from remaining in or passing 
through the chamber. They will not enter 
area 344, but will pursue intruders down the 
west passageway and all other rooms (areas 
346-353) except 340. The golden skull inlaid 
on each suit of armor is actual gold, worth 
50 gp. Four topaz gems are also inset in each 
suit (each gem worth 500 gp). 

Suits of Armor (4): AC 3, MV 6", HD 9, 
hp 45 each, #AT 1, D 1-10 (two-handed 
sword), SD immune to all magic, dam 
aged only by blows (any weapons); XP 
2140 each (x4) 


The frescoes show crowned and robed 
humans, attended by demons of minor 
sorts, and slaves bearing rich rewards 
parading in triumph before a horrible 
bloated figure upon a throne-like seat. The 
mottled fungous body-sphere of this crea 
ture is topped by a toadstool-like growth 
with a face upon it. The body has four ele 
phantine legs, but no visible arms. Seated 
beside this abomination is an obese male 
demonic figure (a cambion, in all probabil 
ity), also seated on a throne. 


346. CHAMBER, 20' x 30' 


This plain room is unfurnished, save for 
a thick carpet on the floor and many 
empty wall sconces, its walls are solid 
stone blocks, closely set and polished. 
The room has no occupants. 


This area was the guardroom where 



demons and the like stood watch when Zuggt- 
moy held council. 

347. LAVISH CHAMBER 


This place is decorated in purples and 
reds: rugs, cushions, upholstered furni 
ture, wall hangings, etc. A large divan, 
covered in plum silk worked with nause 
ating green and orange figures, domi 
nates the north wall. Behind this couch is 
a tapestry depicting the spherical crea 
ture with the mushroom neck and head. 
Before the couch are several stools of cin 
nabar. Ail of the wood is inlaid with 
mother-of-pearl, showing demons, 
fungi, and worse. The wall cressets and 
sconces are of bright copper, either 
recently attended or magically kept pol 
ished. Before a throne, a gold bowl con 
tains platinum pieces. 


The bowl is worth 235 gp. It contains 21 
platinum coins, each marked with the face 
of the demoness, with an evil rune on the 
obverse. These are tokens, showing that the 
bearer has the special favor of Zuggtmoy. 

348. PURPLE HALL 


The stones here are of a deep purple 
color, and all furnishings are of a similar 
hue: a mauve carpet, lilac and puce wall 
hangings, even a long table with 12 
chairs and a larger one at its head are lac 
quered violet. Bronze candelabra are on 
the table, and bronze wall sconces are 
placed at regular intervals. This place 
was probably a council chamber. The 
south wall bears a large map of the Fla- 
naess, with the Temple at its center. It 
shows the conquests of the Temple 
shaded in purple, along with dots of pur 
ple, black, red, green, white, and brown. 
Some cryptic marks are by each dot, 
shown by most cities and towns. 


If read magic is used to examine the map, 
its writings reveal the identities of individ 
uals in many nations. Each is a (secret agent 
of Chaotic Evil, serving Zuggtmoy, luz, and 
some aspect of Elemental Evil. If this map is 
taken to the Archcleric of Veluna at Mitrik, 
he will pay a 10,000 gp reward for the infor 
mation, and those responsible earn the high 
favor of Veluna. Continue if the door to the 
east is opened: 

The walls of the small room to the east 



bear an assortment of weapons: longbow, 
quiver of a score of arrows, sword, spear, 
and sheaf of four javelins. 

All of the weapons except the bow are sil 
vered; the arrowheads are solid silver. The 
secret door can only be triggered by insert 
ing an arrowhead into a small opening. 

349.PLEASURE CHAMBER 


This spacious chamber is filled with opu 
lent furnishings: carpets of rich golden hue, 
nine plush purple chairs, five green velvet 
divans, ten cushions of gray watered silk, 
eight satin ones of deep orange, and six 
ottomans of shining black leather. Wall 
murals and tapestries show scenes of 
debauchery amidst a forest of fungi upon 
beds of mold and like places. A throne-like 
golden seat stands in the room's center. 
One tapestry shows the round-bodied, 
elephant-legged, fungi-headed bulbous 
thing seated on the throne chair, amidst a 
revelry of fungoid forms. 


All of the furnishings in this death trap 
are creatures. The carpet is yellow mold; the 
chairs, violet fungi; the couches, green 
slime; the ottomans, black puddings; ten 
pillows are gray oozes, and eight are ochre 
jellies. Walking on the carpet automatically 
causes the mold to send forth its poisonous 
spore clouds, and the touch of warm 
blooded flesh causes any piece of furniture 
to change to its true form. Zuggtmoy can, of 
course, relax here and enjoy herself. The 
throne weighs 400 pounds and is worth 
50,000 gp intact. It is so wide, however, that 
it will not fit into a portable hole or bag of 
holding, if smashed, the bullion value is 
only 3,800 gp. 

Yellow Molds (15 patches, each 10' square): 
AC 9, hp 5 (per patch) MV 0, #AT I, D 1- 
8, SA cloud 10 cube (inflicts damage and 
requires saving throw vs. poison or die), 
SD affected only by fire (destroys) and 
light (causes dormancy for 2-12 turns); XP 
100 each (xl5) 

Violet Fungi (9 chairs): AC 7, MV 1", HD 3, 
hp 24 each, #AT 4, D rot (save vs. poison 
or die); XP 199 each (x9) 

Green Slimes (5 couches): AC 9, MV 0, HD 2, 
hp 16 each, #AT 1 (if touched), D turn to 
slime in 1-4 rounds, SA eats wood slowly, 
metal quickly (plate armor in 3 rounds), 


92 











SD affected only by cold, fire, or cure dis 
ease; XP 642 each (x5) 

Gray Oozes (10 pillows): AC 8, MV 1", HD 
3 + 3, hp 10 each, #AT 1, D 2-16, SA cor 
rodes metal as pudding, SD immune to 
heat, cold, most 1st Ivl. spells (affected 
only by blows and lightning), Psi Nil; XP 
250 each (xlO) 

Ochre Jellies (8 pillows): AC 8, MV 3 ", HD 6, 
hp 15 each, #AT 1, D 3-12, SA flow 
through small spaces, dissolve flesh, SD 
lightning divides in half; XP 240 each (x8) 

Black Puddings (6 ottomans): AC 6, MV 6", 
HD 10, hp 25 each, #AT 1, D 3-24, SA dis 
solves wood (1 round), metal (chain in 1 
round, plate in 2 rounds, + 1 round per 
magical "plus"), SD blows or lightning 
divides in half, immune to cold (damaged 
only by Are and some spells); XP 1700 each 
(x6) 

350. HALL OF SCULPTURE 


This place is filled with cabinets, lined 
with shelves, and even the walls have 
many alcoves and niches. All bear sculp 
tures of ceramic, bone, stone, shell, and 
other material. These figures depict 
mushrooms of all sorts-toadstool, fun 
gus, blight, etc. -in all colors, sizes, and 
shapes. Some dozen or so larger sculp 
tures are made of ivory, inlaid with 
translucent materials, and stand on the 
floor, apparently for use as stools by 
those who wish to rest while viewing the 
gallery's offerings. 


The thirteen stools are shriekers, 
enchanted to appear inanimate. If touched, 
a stool changes to its actual form and wails 
loudly; this brings Zuggtmoy if she is able to 
enter the room, or else alerts her as to the 
intruders' location. 

Shriekers (13 stools): AC 7, MV 1", HD 3, 
hp 20 each, #AT 0, SD noise; XP 95 each 
(x13) 

If 10 man-turns are spent examining the 
various sculptures, eight valuable ones are 
found (worth 200-800 gp each). Four others 
radiate magic but have no other apparent 
worth; if thrown down, each changes (per 
manently) into a normal shrieker. 


351. EARTH-FLOORED ROOM 


This place is fashioned of polished 
brown stone. The ceiling overhead is 12 
feet high. No cressets are here, nor any 
other place to put torch or candle. The 
floor is dirt from wall to wall-a rich 
dark soil, loosely compacted. The room 
is otherwise empty. 


The soil, 6 feet deep, can be thoroughly 
examined in 30 man-turns, but no treasure 
is here. This room is where Zuggtmoy once 
came to sleep, her stem-legs planted in the 
loam. 

352. EAST HALL 


The polished steps descend some 20 feet 
into a hall which broadens to a 40' 
width. The floor here is serpentine and 
porphyry. The walls are of black marble, 
veined with green and purple. Runes of 
glowing gray and inky black mark the 
walls, with glyphs that seem to run and 
shift into other forms when not viewed 
directly. Weird light comes from silver- 
cupped bronze and copper cressets, 
spaced at 5' intervals on the walls. 
Strange flames leap from them, in all the 
colors of the rainbow-first one hue, 
then another. The arched ceiling 30' 
above is apparently sheathed with 
gleaming silver, reflecting light to the 
polished walls and floor. 

Three large pedestals stand 20 feet to 
the west. Each is 12 feet tall and about 30 
inches in diameter, topped with a metal 
skull seemingly cast as part of the pillar. 
Each likewise bears strange signs and 
sigils that shift and change to be unread 
able. The south pillar is electrum; the 
center, gold; the northern, platinum. 


The electrum pillar can be estimated (if of 
solid metal) as being worth 50,000 gp. The 
gold pillar is worth about 100,000 gp; the 
platinum, 500,000 gp. 

353. GREAT HALL 


Some 30 feet beyond the odd pillars, the 
hall broadens to 60 feet width. A huge 
dais of translucent alabaster commands 
the west end of the place. Before this 
stepped platform is a magical device, set 
in the floor-a hexagon whose two inter 



locking equilateral triangles and the cir 
cle that rings them, seem to be made of 
molten electrum. Tips protruding from 
the sides of the central hexagon glow dif 
ferent colors; clockwise from the north 
being red, orange, yellow, green, blue, 
and indigo. The center of the device 
pulses a pure purple light. 


If all four of the sealed bronze gates have 
been broken, this device will take any and 
all who step within its purple center to Zug- 
gtmoy's own Abyssal Plane. If not, then 
nothing happens if it is entered. 

The dais is marked "A" on the map. Atop 
it is a huge throne of silver, set with 666 pre 
cious gems-300 of base value 50 gp; 200 of 
base value 100 gp; 100 of base value 500 gp; 
33 of base value 1,000 gp; and 33 of base 
value 5,000 gp. Included is every type of 
precious stone known to man. Each stone is 
attuned to a demon: a Type 1 to each of the 
least value; Type II to those of 100 gp; Type 
III to those of 500 gp; Type IV to those of 
1,000 gp; and babau demons to those of 
5,000 gp. Possessors gain demonic attention 
at a time they least desire it; an exorcise spell 
can be used to cleanse 20-120 (2d6xIO) 
gems. If all the gems are pried from the 
throne, Zuggtmoy is freed to return to her 
home plane (as if all the bronze gates had 
been sundered), but is imprisoned there for 
66 years, after which she may come forth 
with all her normal powers. 


Atop the dais to the west is a huge throne 
of silver, adorned with hundreds of pre 
cious gems. These are set to form leering 
demon faces, skulls, fungi, and like pat 
terns; they are of all colors, sizes, and 
shapes. Behind this seat is a huge tapes 
try of deep purple, worked in red, green, 
ochre, and white to show various fungi. 

You find it difficult to see details of the 
throne or the tapestry behind, for the 
west end of the room is dim and 
shrouded in a black mist. As you 
approach, you see a small, fat old crone 
seated on the throne, almost lost in the 
huge seat. She cringes and shrieks when 
you approach, crying out "You won't get 
my treasure!" With that, she fumbles 
with the arm of the chair, and her voice 
suddenly booms out "You may take my 
pillar of electrum. Begone!" 


if intruders attempt to move the pillar, it 


93 












rises easily (as if a mere staff), and can be 
carried by a single person. However, if it 
comes within 60 feet of the bronze gates in 
area 340, the pillar suddenly leaps from the 
grasp, smashes the gates, and crumbles to 
dust! If this occurs or if the offer is not 
accepted, the hag (Zuggtmoy) offers the 
gold column next. Whether refused or 
accepted, the platinum pillar is offered last. 

The first (electrum) pillar is enchanted 
only to break the gates in room 340, and 
crumbles to dust after doing so (worth noth 
ing). The gold pillar breaks those doors and 
continues upwards, passes corridor areas 
227 and 9, enters the octagonal room (210), 
and sunders the gates therein, crumbling at 
that time. The platinum pillar can, if used 
alone, sunder both gates as the gold, and the 
gates of area 145 as well, if the three pillars 
are each accepted and then used to sunder 
gates, the first breaks only the lowest gate, 
the gold breaks only the gate in area 210, 
and the last breaks not only that in area 145 
but continues unabated to crush the portal 
at the Grand Entrance (area 1). Thus, only if 
all three offers are accepted can the pillars 
free Zuggtmoy completely. 

if all three offers are rejected, continue 
with the following. 


The crone desperately fumbles with the 
arms of the throne once again. First an 
olive ray springs forth, eating a small 
hole in the floor; then one of maroon hue 
appears, disintegrating some of the metal 
sheathing in the ceiling. A prismatic 
sphere of odd colors then springs up, as 
even more rays of green and red shoot 
forth. These beams bounce around 
inside the sphere, causing swirls of radi 
ance and sparks. Hideous shrieks come 
from the figure bathed in the rays-and 
the hapless crone is blasted, and turns 
into a fine gray ash! 


This is an illusion, of course. The crone, 
Zuggtmoy, has slipped invisibly behind the 
tapestry to see what the intruders will do. 
Part of the magic which binds the place 
involves greed. When and if Zuggtmoy is 
freed (whether by the taking of the pillars, 
which is still possible at this time, or by the 
prying of gems from the throne), she can 
take all the treasures from this place (includ 
ing those secreted in the niche in area B) to 
her own plane, which she will certainly do if 
remaining in the Temple seems dangerous, 
if any character tries to explore behind 



the curtained alcove to the west where Zug 
gtmoy hides, she sends out a wave of fear; 
each victim within 15 feet must make a sav 
ing throw vs. spells or shrink back. She 
hopes to encourage intruders to take the 
throne's gems. If the party leaves before 
prying them loose, she assumes her normal 
form and moves to attack physically. 

Zuggtmoy (still fully bound): AC 0 (body) 
or -2 (head), MV 6" (walls or ceilings), 
12" (if in crone form), 15" (normal 
form), HD 49, hp 222, #AT 2 + 2 or 2, D 
2-8 each or 2-12 each, SA at will-fear 
15' radius, improved invisibility, pro 
grammed illusion, silence 15' radius, 
crushing damage or stun (see below), SD 
regenerates 1 hp per round (2 hp per 
round if standing in loose soil); XP 
28,770 (if still fully bound) 

Zuggtmoy may use either of two strategic 
ploys in hand-to-hand combat. The first is 
engaging with four pseudopods a maximum 
of two against a single opponent. A single 
hit inflicts 2-8 points of damage, but if two 
succeed in the same round, each inflicts an 
additional 5-8 points of crushing damage 
(for a total for both hits, of 14-32 points, or 
6d4 + 8). She may instead choose to trample 
one opponent if that individual is prone or 
under 4 feet in height. Trampling consists of 
two attacks, each inflicting 2-12 points; if 
both hit, the victim is stunned for 1-4 
rounds. If one or more gates are sundered, 
Zuggtmoy gains additional powers (usable 
at will, to a maximum of one per round), as 
follows. Effects are cumulative, of course. 

No gates broken: as above; XP 28,770 
One gate broken: continual darkness, 
pollute food Ik drink; revised XP 31,370 
Two gates broken: detect good, detect 
magic, levitate, read languages, read magic, 
tongues; revised XP 33,970 
Three gates broken: polymorph self, tele 
kinesis (up to 10,000 gp), gate (as normal; 
see description of gates), and limited wish 
once per day; revised XP 36,970 

Four gates broken: All other powers (see 
description of gates); full XP 45,170 

If the lowest gate (340) is sundered, Zug 
gtmoy is no longer imprisoned in area 353 
(A and B), but is freed to roam the entire 
north dungeon (areas 339-353). If the gates 
at the top of the stairs (area 210) are also 
broken, she is free to roam dungeon levels 
two and three. If the upper gate (area 145) is 



opened, she is free to roam dungeon levels 
one and four as well; and if the outer gate 
(area 1) is also broken, Zuggtmoy is com 
pletely freed. If characters do manage to 
slay Zuggtmoy, remember that the four ele 
mental symbols in area 339 vanish, and the 
Elemental Nodes collapse as well. Charac 
ters may then investigate the corridor- 
alcove west of the Great Hall. If Zuggtmoy 
surrenders to save her life, she will get out 
her treasures and exchange them for safety. 


Beyond the tapestry behind the throne is 
a corridor 80' long and 10' wide. It is 
unlit and has no furnishings. A recess in 
the west wall forms a shelf about two feet 
deep and ten feet long, the niche being 
about four feet tall. On the shelf are only 
four dusty stones. 


If all four stones are moved simultane 
ously, the rear wall of the niche slides 
upward to reveal the treasures. However, if 
the stones are moved singly or in some com 
bination other than all at once, the follow 
ing effects occur (keyed per stone): 

1. Blade scythes downwards, cutting off 
any body part thrust over the shelf (no 
saving throw) 

2. Poisoned darts shoot outward 15 feet; 
before the shelf area is hit by 1-4 darts, 
each inflicting 1-4 points of damage and 
requiring a saving throw vs. poison to 
avoid death in 1-4 rounds. 

3. Nothing happens for 1 round; then a 
lightning bolt streaks the length of the 
corridor, for 60 points of damage (save 
vs. spells for half damage) 

4. A jet of green slime erupts from the back 
of the shelf area, spraying an area 20' 
long; each victim in the area must make a 
saving throw vs. poison or be covered. 

in the secret niche are the following items: 
wand of fire (72 charges), rod of smiting (41 
charges), ring of feather falling, Daem's 
Instant Fortress, a scroll case containing a 
scroll of five magic-user spells (monster sum 
moning 1, death spell, repulsion, maze, sym 
bol of discord), and a box containing eight 
potions (animal control, climbing, flying, 
healing, invulnerability, philter of persuasive 
ness, polymorph self, super-heroism). (The 
first potion affects mammals, marsupials, and 
avians.) 


94 





DUNGEON LEVEL FOUR 


The Great Temple of area 419 is the central 
command headquarters of all current opera 
tions of the Temple of Elemental Evil. 
Recruiting drives, raids, temporary and 
long-term plans - all are the products of 
the leaders herein. 

The masterminds of the Greater Temple 
maintain some degree of contact with Zug- 
gtmoy herself by way of a special magical 
area deep within the compound (area 435). 
luz, however, is seen in person on occasion, 
as he visits here to gather information and 
to offer advice. The Temple personnel are 
respectful of both luz and Zuggtmoy in a 
practical sense rather than one of awe, see 
ing the Two as great leaders and com 
manders rather than dwelling on their true 
aspects of demoness and demigod. It is only 
by luz' influence and occasional instructions 
that the humans herein keep some small 
measure of order amongst their unpredicta 
ble minions. 

Zuggtmoy's current location is not 
known to any of the Temple personnel, nor 
to luz. They are all aware of her imprisoned 
state, but do not know where that prison 
may be. luz suspects the true location 
(dungeon areas 340-353), but has been 
unable to penetrate it, nor have his fol 
lowers. But none have pressed the matter 
with great diligence, for several reasons, luz 
is satisfied with matters as they stand, at 
least for the moment; he is doing a few 
things with which Zuggtmoy's presence 
might have interfered. Zuggtmoy is known 
to be alive and well, as gleaned from her 
communications with those in the Greater 
Temple, so nothing is to fear from that quar 
ter. And finally, a being more powerful than 
luz - the lesser god St. Cuthbert Himself - 
has been involved from the beginning, and 
it seems best to postpone the inevitable con 
frontation with that august personage for a 
time. Thus, Zuggtmoy's prison will not be 
sundered by the efforts of her allies and fol 
lowers. 

Zuggtmoy's splendid Greater Temple and 
luz 1 chamber north of it (area 433) are 
important features of the dungeon level, but 
others are even more critical. Eight long cor 
ridors stretch from the sides of the Temple, 
each a color corresponding to one of the 
four elements. These corridors lead to per 
manent magical gates, each marked by a 
corresponding shape already seen in the 
upper dungeon levels - a circle for air, tri 
angle for earth, square for water, and the 
eight-pointed fire symbol. Two gates exist 


for each such symbol, however. One of each 
pair leads directly to the corresponding Ele 
mental Plane; the other leads to a nearby 
partial plane, called a Node. The Nodes are 
detailed in section 4 of this adventure. 

The elemental nodes form the basis for 
the whole evil operation. They are as caul 
drons, used to mix evil and elemental forces 
in an unholy recipe concocted by Zuggtmoy 
and luz over a decade ago. Within the nodes 
are special creatures, to be used as future 
troops and specialists. The nodes and the 
Orb of Golden Death (see Appendix D) 
were created together, and are directly and 
magically linked. The powers of this artifact 
come from the nodes; if the Orb is 
destroyed, the nodes are likewise (and vice 
versa, though destroying a plane of exist 
ence is a far greater task). 

CHARACTER ACTIONS 

This dungeon level is a dangerous place 
even for higher level characters. Cautious 
PCs will explore quietly and carefully, and 
should quickly realize the dangers herein. If 
they take appropriate measures, such as dis 
guise (preferably magical, polymorphing 
being quite convenient), they might be able 
to infiltrate, misdirect, encourage chaos, 
and generally turn the place into a shambles 
without suffering too much damage. On the 
other hand, direct frontal attack is nearly 
suicidal. If necessary, an overzealous party 
might be surprised, captured, and simply 
ejected as soon as they reach the intersection 
between areas 40Z and 409. 

if the party has been ravaging the upper 
dungeon levels, those herein will be on alert 
status (see Troops Sentries below), main 
taining exact guard positions and ready for 
trouble, if characters have allowed any vic 
tims or witnesses to escape, a fairly good 
description of them will have reached this 
area, and retribution will be as swift and 
cruel as possible. On the other hand, if PCs 
have carefully explored the dungeons in 
such a way as to slay few and escape with 
maximum gains, they will probably not 
have this reputation. The forces of the 
Greater Temple may be relatively unpre 
pared, and if the PCs are taken, they might 
be thrown to the Nodes rather than extermi 
nated. 

If player characters venture into the 
nodes on their own accord, without first 
obtaining the Orb from its current custodi 
ans (see area 338), they may suffer further 


defeat and even entrapment therein. If they 
have not received the special poem-clue 
(described at the introductory notes to 
Dungeon Level One), review that informa 
tion and select a method for introducing it. 
If players ignore the fairly explicit instruc 
tions in the poem, or do not leave the 
dungeon setting for respite, they will proba 
bly blunder into the nodes unprepared. Do 
what you can to channel them back to the 
dungeon (by means as detailed in the pref 
ace to the nodes), so they may obtain 
another chance at complete success. 

IUZ AND ST. CUTHBERT 

PC or NPC actions herein may result in the 
appearance of the demigod luz, the lesser 
god St. Cuthbert, or both. Should luz be 
attracted or summoned (either by the direct 
actions of local residents or by PC errors), 
Cuthbert will probably (90% chance) arrive 
as well in Z-9 segments; if not, the PCs are 
surely doomed. Cuthbert will not appear 
unless luz does so first. Zuggtmoy's freedom 
or lack of it does not affect Cuthbert's 
actions in any case. 

If St. Cuthbert does appear, he and luz 
will vanish together in a puff of smoke and 
thunderclap, as they will not discuss or set 
tle their differences in the presence of their 
followers or other mortals. Before their 
departure, however, luz will first restore his 
troops with a gesture, and his ancient 
enemy will do the same immediately there 
after. This has the effect of animating all 
slain evil troops wearing the symbol of luz 
(i.e. the Temple guards), restoring them 
somewhat as monster zombies. Leaders 
wearing the golden skull are also revived, 
but as if raise dead and heal were applied. 
Slain PCs are similarly revived by St. 
Cuthbert, being raised and healed either to 
20% of normal hit points or, if the PC is a 
follower of the deity, with a full heal (curing 
all but 1-4 hp). 

TROOPS AND SENTRIES 

The troops of the Temple include the rank- 
and-file bugbears and ogres, led by hill 
giants and ettins, all commanded by human 
clerics and magic-users. The troops are used 
for nearly any sort of task anywhere in or 
near the Temple and its dungeons, being a 
powerful strike force capable of well- 
coordinated attacks under their human 
strategists. The Temple guards, who stay 


95 



here at all times, are a horde of gargoyles 
and trolls, offering either aerial or ground 
attacks (or both) against intruders, and hav 
ing good resistance and stamina. Guards are 
often supplemented or reinforced by troops. 

Nearly all of the Temple s regular forces 
wear distinctive garb, even though armor or 
clothing may not be typical of the race. 
Only the gargoyles wear none. For ceremo 
nial occasions, the entire force is attired 
suitably, in a color matching one of the four 
elemental forces. However, more protective 
garb is the rule at most times. Armor is 
either black leather or blacking on metal, 
with similar shield if one is used. Both shield 
and armor are decorated, the latter typically 
high on the back. The designs employed 
vary by troop rank. Regular troops (bug 
bears and ogres) wear Zuggtmoy's Eye of 
Fire, the symbol first encountered in the 
ruins by Hommlet. The guards (trolls, 
giants, and ettins) and the bugbear and ogre 
chieftains wear the ensign of luz - the grin 
ning red horned skull so common to the 
guards on Dungeon Level Two. The clerics 
and magic-users wear the emblem of the 
Orb of Golden Death, a golden skull with 
out a lower jaw but with a jeweled crown. 

The positions of the residents will depend 
on the relative status of the area. If PCs have 
recently been raiding the upper dungeon 
levels heavily (i.e. if half or more of the 
monsters therein have been slain), the 
Greater Temple will be on special alert for 
intruders. A lighter guard schedule is used 
otherwise. The resulting positions are as fol 
lows for the hours of 8 AM to midnight. Cut 
all numbers in half at other times, using one 
guard to watch a pair of adjacent corridors 
(420 + 423,426 + 429) from a position just 
inside the Temple proper. 

Human leaders usually keep position 
behind the main altar (419 A) during alerts, 
but may be anywhere at other times. A pre 
ferred tactic is to haste most or all of the 
ogres massed in the Temple while intruders 
are delayed on the stairs. If the invaders 
turn off into a barracks area, troops will be 
quickly moved into position to cut off possi 
ble escape. 


Troop and Guard Positions 


Area 

Normal 

Alert 

401 

Empty 

2 trolls 

402 

2 trolls 

2 trolls 

409 

2 trolls 

2 trolls 

410 

1 troll 

Empty 


416 

1 troll 

Empty 

418 

Empty 

2 trolls 

419 

2 trolls + 

12 ogres + 


2-8 gargoyles 

12 gargoyles 

420(x2) 

Empty 

1 hill giant 

421 

1 hill giant 

2 bugbears 

422 

1 hill giant 

2 bugbears 

423(x2) 

Empty 

1 ettin 

424 

1 ettin 

2 bugbears 

425 

1 ettin 

2 bugbears 

426(x2) 

Empty 

1 ettin 

427 

1 ettin 

2 bugbears 

428 

1 ettin 

2 bugbears 

429(x2) 

Empty 

1 hill giant 

430(x2) 

1 hill giant 

2 bugbears 


Thus, when not on alert, the bugbears and 
ogres are generally moving about - patrol 
ling, cleaning, and/or repairing areas of 
Dungeon Levels Three and Four. 

TACTICAL NOTES 

At times other than alerts, the residents 
wander a bit from their stations, and may be 
found up to 50 feet away at any time. They 
may move to engage intruders if such seems 
appropriate, but will sound an alarm while 
doing so. When an alarm is thus called, the 
others will eventually come to take their 
assigned positions, but this may require as 
much as 11-20 rounds of preparation and 
movement. 

If fighting starts during alert status, those 
stationed at specific points do not move 
from those places to engage intruders unless 
specifically ordered to do so. They contrib 
ute missile fire to melees in the Greater Tem 
ple whenever possible, but will keep their 
posts and fight to the death. 

The gargoyles (who actually live in the 
Temple itself) rove the place in groups of 3- 
6, but return to and defend the Temple dur 
ing alerts, meetings, and so forth. Their 
primary purpose during an alert is to stop 
all flying intruders. Their secondary task is 
to enter melees by swooping from the air, as 
they might thereby gain surprise against 
opponents already engaged (1-3 on ld6). 

During alerts, ettins and giants stand in 
corridors about 10-15 feet from the Greater 
Temple area, weapons at ready. They con 
tribute to melees in the Temple with thrown 
boulders, avoiding their comrades if possi 
ble (but often not entirely). Note that three 
of the ettins have been instructed by the 
giants in rock-throwing, and have a similar 
capacity for hurling such, at the faster rate 


of two per round (ranges 3 "/6 "/12", D 2- 
16) but with a -4 "to hit" penalty due to min 
imal proficiency. 

The bugbears by the gates stay out of line- 
of-sight from the bulk of the corridor, 
around a corner if possible, with weapons at 
ready. Note their surprise ability, and the 
fact that this could give them several sur 
prise segments of missile fire. 

RANDOM ENCOUNTERS 

RollldlOOonceperturn.andrefertothetablebelow. 
encounter areas if noted. 

Id 100 Result 

01-02 One black pudding, scavenging 
03 Smigmal and Falrinth (with Kriitch, 
a quasit familiar), heading down 
from their rooms (areas 336-337) to 
see Supreme Commander Hedrack 
(area 417) about some trouble 
caused by the player characters. (If 
either of the two has been slain, the 
other appears alone; if the PCs have 
killed or chased off both, No 
Encounter.) 

04-05 1 Ettin, checking on guards 
06-07 1-2 Trolls, patrolling 
08-10 3-6 Gargoyles, patrolling 
11-12 1-2 Hill giants, checking on guards 

13-16 1-4 ogres and 2-5 bugbears, heading 

back to area 405 to get a between 
meal snack. They are 50% likely to 
panic and run if challenged, since 
they should be on guard duty some 
where. 

17 Zuggtmoy alone (if able to wander 
this area; otherwise No Encounter) 

18 Zuggtmoy with one of the above 
groups (roll again, using 2d8 if able 
to wander this area; otherwise No 
Encounter) 

19-00 No Encounter 

Details 

Black pudding; AC 6, MV 6", HD 10, hp 55, 
#AT 1, D 3-24, SA dissolves wood Ik 
metal, SD affected only by fire, AL N, 

SZ L (7" across); XP 1350 + 14/hp 

Ettin; AC 3, MV 12", HD 10, #AT 2, D 2- 
16/3-18, SA throw rocks (#AT 2, ranges 
3"/6"/12", D 2-16 each), SD surprised 
only on a 1, AL CE, SZ L (13" + ); XP 
2400 + 14/hp 




Smigmal Redhand: AC 4 (leather +1 &. 
shield +2), MV 12", Level 7/7 Fighter/ 
Assassin, hp 41, XP 4924 
S 17 I 15 W 7 D 16 Co 17 Ch 14 
#AT 3/2, D 3-8, SA poison on sword 
(insinuative type B, + 3 bonus to saving 
throw, Dmg 25 in 2 rounds), SD ring of 
spell storing/invisibility; Thief Abilities: 
PP 45, OL 52, F/RT45, MS 40, HS 31, 
HN 25, CW 95, RL 15 

Falrinth: AC 3 (bracers of defense), MV 
12", Level 8 (Level 9 with familiar), hp 
27, #AT 1, D 2-5, SA spells, SD regener- 
' ate I hp per round, MR 25%; XP 4024 
S 10 I 17 W 10 D 17 Co 15 Ch 12 
(See Dungeon Level 3 for Falrinth's usual 
memorized spells. Modify them accord 
ingly if PC raids have caused alerts.) 

Kriitch (quasit familiar): AC 2, MV 15", 
HD 3, hp 16, #AT 3, D 1-2/1-2/1-4, SA 
claw poison (save or lose 1 point Dexter 
ity for 2-12 rounds), fear blast once per 
day (30 radius), SD 25 % MR, regenerate 
1 hp/round, hit only by iron or magic 
weapons, immune to cold, fire, and 
lightning; XP 373 

Gargoyle: AC 5, MV 9"/15", HD 4 + 4, 
#AT 4, D1-3/1-3/1-6/1-4, SA + 1 bonus 
"to hit" and damage when first swooping 
to attack, SD hit only by + 1 or better 
magic weapons, AL CE, SZ M; XP 165 
+ 5/hp 

Hill giant: AC 4, MV 12", HD 8 + 2, #AT 1, 
D 2-16, SA boulders (D 2-16, indoor 
ranges 376 "/12'); ALCE, SZ L (10 + ), 
XP 1400 + 12/hp 

Ogre: AC 3, MV 9", HD 4 + 1, #AT 1, D 1- 
10 or by weapon +3, AL CE, SZ L 
(9' +); XP 90 + 5/hp 

Troll: AC4, MV 12 ", HD 6+ 6, #AT3, D5- 
8/5-8/2-12, SD regenerates (3 hp per 
round starting 3 rounds after being dam 
aged), AL CE, SZ L (9'); XP 525 + 8/hp 

ROOM KEY 

401. PROMENADE 

This area is normally empty, but is guarded 
by a pair of trolls (from area 402) during 
alerts. If present, they stand by the south 
wall between the stairways, hoping to sur 



prise intruders. 

The descending stairways empty onto a 
large landing. From there, a passage 20 feet 
wide and 30 feet tall slopes slightly down 
wards to the north, leading to more stairs, 
an intersection, more stairs, and more corri 
dor. 

The walls of the landing are covered with 
mosaic murals depicting a nauseating scene 
of frolicking demons, vile goops and molds, 
and giant humanoids, all capering about 
amidst a field of their fallen, torn, and tor 
tured victims. 

This stair seems often used, with fresh 
and old footprints of large humanoids all 
about. Small scraps of food and bits of bone 
lie in the dusty corners of the stairs' risers. In 
one corner is a small piece of torn parch 
ment, easily found if characters examine the 
area. Upon it is a faded drawing, its details 
only discernible when held up to a light 
source. It is a crude depiction of a crowned 
skull, with four lines (each about twice the 
length of the skull s height) emanating from 
the crown, and a circle at the outer end of 
each line. 

402. EAST WING 

in this area live four trolls, sentries for the 
troops of the Great Temple (who lair in 
areas 405-408) and personal guardians of 
their commanders (tose in areas 403 and 
404). Two will be here at all times, and all 
are present at night. 

The trolls' bedding is piled in the north 
east corner of the area, along with 4 small 
chests. The trolls drag out their bedding at 
sleeping times, and keep all their valuables 
in their locked chests; each has a key. Inside 
each chest are 10 cp, 19 sp, 16 ep, 15 gp, and 
1-4 gems of pure black tourmaline (worth 
500 gp each). One troll also has a figurine, 
an ebony fly - which is cursed to become a 
Chasme (minor demon; see MM2 page 38) 
after the seventh round of its seventh use. 

The east wall is covered by a huge tapes 
try which depicts a great battle, apparently 
between the forces of Good and Evil. 
Therein, shining humans and winged 
humanoids are being blasted to the ground 
by magical rays issuing forth from the eyes 
of a gigantic, rotund, wrinkled face. The 
tapestry conceals a normal-sized but stoutly 
reinforced iron-bound door (to area 403). 
The trolls have no keys. A corridor about 10 
feet wide and 15 feet high slants off to the 
southeast. 



Trolls (4): AC 4, MV 12", HD 6 + 6, hp 42, 
38, 35, 30, #AT 3, D 5-8/5-8/2-12, SD 
regenerates (3 hp per round starting 3 
rounds after being damaged); AL CE, SZ 
L (9'), XP 861, 829, 805, 765 (525 + 
8/hp) 

403. STUDY 

This quiet room is the abode of Barkinar 
and Deggum, the commanders of the Tem 
ple Troops and Guards (respectively). They 
are usually elsewhere except at night. 

Two normal beds stand along the north 
and south walls, nestled tightly into the 
western corners. Beside each is a wardrobe 
and a small table, the latter bearing a crystal 
ewer and cup (each set worth 250 gp). 

The east wall of the room is dominated by 
a great brick fireplace with marble mantle, 
upon which are various knicknacks col 
lected by the two clerics - shrunken human 
heads, religious paraphernalia, carved figu 
rines, and other interesting items, with a 
total value of3,500gp (averaging 350 gp per 
item). 

Decorative tapestries flank the fireplace 
on the east wall. The southern conceals an 
open doorway leading to a neat closet, in 
which the clothing of the two clerics is kept 
hanging to either side. A full-length mirror 
is mounted on the east closet wall. Four 
pieces of gold jewelry (each worth 1,000 gp) 
lie on a small shelf attached to the mirror's 
left edge. Another identical but empty shelf 
is at the right edge; if twisted clockwise, it 
opens the secret door entrance to a corridor 
to the mages' room (404). 

Barkinar worked his way up through the 
ranks over the last six years. He came to the 
Temple ruins to scavenge treasure, and 
stayed to serve and earn even greater 
wealth. Once a lowly cleric of the Earth 
Temple, he became its leader through a 
series of treacherous and bloody maneu 
vers. Knowing talent when he saw it, 
Supreme Commander Hedrack brought the 
mature and experienced Barkinar to the 
lower levels of the dungeons. Barkinar 
expects, but does not covet, Hedracks 
exalted position. He bides his time, working 
earnestly for the good of Zuggtmoy and the 
Temple in any way demanded. He is patient, 
cruel, scheming, and utterly evil -a perfect 
officer for this milieu. 

Deggum is a half-elf, a renegade and run 
away from his people in Welkwood. Drawn 
by rumors of the resurrection of evil might, 


97 





and by the promises of Lareth (from the 
Hommlet moathouse ruin) and others like 
him, Deggum has found success and a fast 
rise in power through his Temple position. 
He is personally tutored by Hedrack and 
Senshock both, and is seen as a great future 
leader. He carries his spellbook in a pack at 
all times, and studies his craft in his spare 
moments. The book contains most of the 
same first and second level spells as those of 
his tutur, Senshock. 

Each cleric carries a black scarab 
inscribed with the letters TZGY, which is 
used to control the curtain behind the main 
altar (419 A). Barkinar owns potions of 
extra healing and speed, and Deggum owns 
potions of healing and growth. They will 
use them as needed to combat invaders. 

Barkinar: AC -1 (plate + I, shield +2), MV 
12", Level 7 Cleric, hp 60, #AT 1, D by 
weapon (staff of striking) or spell, SA 
wears boots of levitation, SD spells; XP 
1680 

S 11 1 16 W 17 D 10 Co 16 Ch 8 
Spells memorized: 

First level: command, cure light wounds 
(x2), remove fear, sanctuary 
Second level: hold person (x2), resist fire, 
silence 15' radius, slow poison 
Third level: dispel magic, prayer, bestow 
curse 

Fourth level: cure serious wounds 

Deggum: AC 2 (chain &. shield), MV 12", 
Level 5/4 Cleric/Magic-User, hp 21, #AT 
1, D by weapon or spell, SA spells, SD 
ring of fire resistance; XP 1118 
S 12 I 15 W 18 D 7 Co 10 Ch 11 

Cleric spells memorized: 

First level: bless, cure light wounds, detect 
magic, sanctuary (x2) 

Second level: augury, chant, hold person, 
poison, spiritual hammer 
Third level: continual darkness, animate 
dead 

Magic-user spells memorized: 

First level: magic missile (x3) 

Second level: invisibility (x2) 

404. ROOM, 20' x 30' 

The door to this room is wizard locked at 9th 
level of magic use. This is the secluded lair of 
Senshock, Lord Wizard of the Greater Tem 
ple. He may (40% chance) be here at any time 



during daylight hours, working on his own 
projects, or is otherwise busily conferring with 
clerics, instructing giants, or performing some 
other administrative task. He always carries 
his black scarab inscribed with the letters 
TZGY, for controlling the curtain behind the 
altar (area 419 A). 

The room is well-appointed, with tapes 
tries on the walls and furnishings made of 
ebony and rosewood. The bed stands in the 
southeast corner, adjacent to a small fire 
place in the east wall. A wardrobe stands at 
the foot of the bed between it and the door. 
The north wall is filled by a long work 
bench, with beakers bubbling over small 
flames, bottles and boxes of various rare 
substances, and other laboratory parapher 
nalia. On the west wall is an oaken shelf 
unit, upon which are three large and heavily 
bound books, a group of twelve pieces of 
assorted jewelry all bearing a black skull 
motif, three wooden eggs, and two plati 
num medallions with like chains. 

Each of the three books on the shelf is a 
trap, of course, and all of the same type. 
The books are made of heavy wood, pains 
takingly painted to look real. A book sticks 
to anyone who touches it, due to a powerful 
curse (no saving throw). It remains so until 
a remove curse is applied by a 9th or higher 
level caster. The jewelry collection is worth 
25,000 gp for all, each piece being studded 
with diamond chips and onyx; the average 
value of individual pieces is 1,500 gp if the 
set is split. 

The wooden eggs appear to be nothing 
more than nicely Grafted puzzles in which 
the pieces are cleverly interlocked, worth 
750 gp for the set due to the fine inlay work, 
in the center of each egg, however, is a crys 
tal miniature of the unholy symbol used 
hereabouts; each figure is worth 1,000 gp, 
but should be destroyed by Good charac 
ters. The platinum medallions and chains 
also bear unholy symbols, but need only be 
melted down to be properly spoiled, then 
worth 200 gp for the metal (or 150 gp each 
for the original medallions). 

The wardrobe is stoutly made, and has 
five secret compartments disguised as parts 
of the ornamental inlay design. A separate 
check for secret doors is required for each 
compartment. Each space is a two-inch 
cube, and the contents are as follows: 

1 Six black sapphires, each worth 5,000 gp. 

2 One carnelian (worth 50 gp) bearing a fire 

trap (D 10-14). 

3 One crumpled black handkerchief, soiled 



and sticky from use. This portable hole 
contains Senshock's spell books (see 
below), a cloak of poisonousness, one 
large flask of oil bearing a fire trap (D 10- 
14 plus 4-24 from the exploding oil), and 
29 potion vials held in six wooden racks. 
The potions include one of nearly every 
type listed in the DMG, except for ani 
mal, dragon, and human control, delu 
sion, and both oils. Those of giant 
strength and control are of the hill giant 
type, of course, those being most accessi 
ble for materials. 

4 Four jeweled (but non-magicai) bracers, 
each pair worth 2,000-8,000 gp. 

5 A tiny pocket mirror of life trapping, 
which causes the first person looking into 
it to save vs. spells or be ensnared (as the 
larger version). If it catches a victim, it 
simultaneously releases its current occu 
pant (a purple worm, hp 88), as it has 
only one extra-dimensional space. The 
exchange will be so rapid, however, as to 
produce the impression that the victim 
was polymorphed into the worm.... 

On the workbench are various hairs, liq 
uids, and other items obtained from a vari 
ety of monsters (but no dragons), along 
with powdered gems, quicksilver, and other 
components. The whole is worth 20,000 gp, 
plus another 500 gp for exotic glassware and 
utensils. The lot may be gathered and 
packed for travel at the rate of 1,000 gp 
worth per turn per person, assuming proper 
sacks and padding are available. 

Senshock is the respected and dreaded 
emissary of Zuggtmoy herself, just as luz 
wields power through Hedrack and 
Barkinar, so do the scales balance through 
Senshock's actions on Zuggtmoy's behalf. 

Long ago, as an apprentice in the local 
wizard s guild, Senshock learned the busi 
ness of potion and wand making, and has 
brought those talents here. He visits the lab 
(area 330) on occasion, or sends bugbears or 
trolls to fetch the necessary items, but per 
forms all of his work here, in his private 
room. 

Senshock combines his attention to detail 
with grand strategy planning, and is the 
actual source of many of the better tactics 
used by the Temple forces. He has been 
assured (by Zuggtmoy) of the position of 
High Commander and General of all the 
Temple s mighty forces once the reconstruc 
tion is complete, luz has been noncommittal 
about this, so Senshock is trying to gain luz' 


98 






favor in any way possible. 

The Lord Wizard is a critical part of the 
defense plan for the Greater Temple, main 
taining a post behind the main altar (419A) 
and adding his spells where needed in 
melees. He will not expose himself until or 
unless invaders are near defeat. Should the 
Temple guards suffer defeat, he will take his 
place in the throne room (area 435) to brief 
Zuggtmoy about the events, and will then 
teleport out to a well-studied secret retreat 
in Verbobonc. 

Senshock is privy to certain secrets of 
luz', but will never reveal anything of great 
import. If captured and examined by ESP or 
similar means, however, Senshock can pro 
vide one interesting tidbit - luz is working 
against the Scarlet Brotherhood, and seeks 
both Zuggtmoy (whose location is 
unknown even to him) and his mother Igwlf 
(believed lost in the great Abyss) to aid him 
in this task. If charmed or otherwise magi 
cally coerced to reveal his secrets, Senshock 
will suddenly and mysteriously die, slain by 
luz himself. 

Senshock: AC 1 (bracers of defense AC 3), 
MV 12 ", Level 9 Magic-User, hp 26, #AT 
1, D by weapon or spell, SA spells, wand 
of fire, SD spells, ring of protection +2, 
ring of feather falling, XP 4012 
S 11 1 18 W9 D8 Co 10 Ch 13 

Spells memorized: 

Level 1: detect magic, magic missile (x2), 
unseen servant 

Level 2: detect invisibility, invisibility, web 
Level 3: dispel magic, haste, lightning bolt 
Level 4: charm monster, polymorph self 
Level 5: teleport 

Spellbook (hidden in the portable hole in his 
wardrobe): 

Level 1: charm person, detect magic, feather 
fall, magic missile, read magic, shield, 
unseen servant, write 

Level 2: detect invisibility, invisibility, 
knock, magic mouth, web, wizard lock 
Level 3: dispel magic, fireball, fly, haste, 
lightning bolt, tongues 
Level 4: charm monster, dimension door, 
fire trap, polymorph self 
Level 5: conjure elemental, teleport, wall of 
stone 

405. COMMON ROOM 

This area is the central meeting-place, mess 



hall, and lounge for the rank-and-file troops 
of the Great Temple - 12 ogres and 18 bug 
bears. The current inhabitants of the room 
are found by checking the time of day, as 
follows. 

Meals are at 1-3 PM, 6-8 PM, and 1-3 
AM. During these periods, the area is busy 
with 6-9 of each troop type. They take turns 
eating and then replacing others at their 
assigned tasks (wherever that may be), so 
ogres and bugbears are strolling in and out 
almost continuously. The place is loud and 
messy. Those in the process of eating are 
usually also talking, arguing, engaging in 
minor food fights, and so forth. 

The ogre shaman (who lairs in area 407) 
refuses to risk himself in guard duty, and so 
functions as the cook. He is assisted by four 
bugbears at all times. Between noon and 4 
AM, the shaman/cook is 50% likely to be 
here, or 40% likely to be in his nearby 
room, though he may (10%) be wandering 
in the nearby halls carrying a ladle of 
chunky fluid, looking for someone to taste 
his latest creation (which has a 30% chance 
of causing nausea for 1-4 turns). Though 
busy at mealtimes, he is otherwise 20% 
likely to be found dozing. 

During a one-hour period after each 
mealtime, one black pudding may (25% 
chance) be present, eating scraps for the 
cook (a friend it recognizes) and generally 
consuming everything else it is permitted. 

At other times a group of 2-5 bugbears, 1- 
4 ogres, or both may be here secretly, trying 
to talk the cook into making a snack but, 
through experience with the stubborn sha 
man, expecting scraps at best. Roll 1 d 12; 
1 = bugbears, 2= ogres, 3= both, 4-12 = 
no visitors. 

The bedpiles of four bugbears are in the 
southeast corner of the room. This group is 
composed of the most recent losers in the vari 
ous gambling games played by the troops, and 
have lost their bunk privileges to those in area 
408 (a-f). They are thus also drafted as assist 
ants for the cook, and as tasters as well. They 
have no treasure; they constantly pilfer what 
ever they can, but their belongings are regu 
larly stripped by the others, or eaten by the 
wandering pudding. 

Bugbears (4): AC 5, MV 9", HD 3 +1, hp 20, 
15,13,12, #AT 1 or 2, D 2-8 (morning star) 
or 1 -6/1 -6 (longbow), SA missile fire, sur 
prise on 1-3; AL CE, SZ L (7' + ), XP 240, 
220, 212, 208 (160 + 4/hp) 



406. ROOM, 20' x 10' 

Rooms 406a through 406d are used by the 
ogre troops of the Great Temple. Each room 
is 20' x 10, and 15' tall. Even if not 
encountered elsewhere, the ogres will only 
be found here 30% of the time. The south 
west room (406e), identical to the others, is 
occupied by the bugbear chieftain and sub 
chief. 

Ogres (8): AC 3, MV 9", HD 4 + 1 (hp 5-8 
per die), #AT 1, Dl-10 or by weapon + 3 
(spear or club), AL CE, SZ L (9 1 + ); XP 
90 + 5/hp 

Bugbear Chief: AC 3, HD 3 + 1, hp 29, #AT 
1, D 4-10 (morning star) or 3-10 (spear), 
SA surprise on 1-3, attack as if 4 HD; XP 
185 + 4/hp 

Bugbear Sub-chief: AC 4, HD 3 + 1, hp 23, 
#AT 1, D 3-9 (morning star) or 2-9 
(spear), SA surprise on 1-3, attack as if 4 
HD; XP 160 + 4/hp 

407. ROOM, 40' x 50' 

Herein lair the ogre chieftain, two leaders, 
and a shaman. 

The shaman functions as cook for the 
troops, as detailed above (area 405). The 
other three sleep a great deal, go out on an 
occasional dungeon patrol, or 'supervise' 
their ogre troops at their posts. 

In deference to his rank, the ogre chieftain 
has been given a black scarab which he 
believes is identical to those used by the 
human leaders. His, however, is inscribed 
with the letters TZOY, and will not function 
as the others. He has never put it to the test. 

Ogre Chieftain: AC 4, MV 9", HD 4 + 1, hp 
36, #AT 1, D 4-14 (2d6 + 2, club) or 5-12 
(ld8 + 3, spear), SA attacks as if 7 HD; 
XP 265 + 5/hp 

Ogre leaders (2): AC 3, MV 9 ", HD 4 + 1, hp 
33, 31, #AT 1, D 2-12 (club) or 4-11 
(ld8 + 3, spear), SA attacks as if 7 HD; 
XP 265 + 5/hp 

Ogre shaman: AC 4, MV 9", HD 5 + 3, hp 
29, #AT 1, D 1-10 (club), SA spells (as 
level 3 cleric), SD spells; XP 305 + 6/hp. 


99 





Spells memorized: 

Level 1: cure light wounds, darkness 
Level 2: resist fire 

408. BARRACKS 

This area has no doors, being a communal 
lair of a dozen bugbear troops of the Tem 
ple. Their chief and sub-chief stay in the 
southwest room by the common (area 
406e). Each bugbear has been trained in the 
longbow, and carries 30 normal arrows in a 
quiver. 

Bugbears (12): AC 5, MV 9", HD 3 + 1 (hp 
5-8 per die), #AT 1 or 2, D 2-8 (morning 
star) or 1-6/1-6 (longbow), SA surprise 
on 1-3, AL CE, SZ L (7 + ); XP 160 + 
4/hp 

409. WESTWING 

in this area live four trolls, sentries for the 
Guards of the Great Temple (areas 410-415) 
and personal guardians of their high com 
mander (area 417). Two will be here at all 
times, and all four during the night. 

The trolls' bedding is piled in the north 
west corner of the area, along with 4 small 
chests. The trolls drag out their bedding at 
sleeping times, and keep all their valuables 
in their locked chests; each has a key. Inside 
each chest are 15 cp, 13 sp, 10 ep, 19 gp, and 
1-4 violet garnets (worth 500 gp each). 

On the east wall is a huge painted mural 
depicting a great battle, apparently between 
the forces of Good and Evil. Therein, shin 
ing humans and winged humanoids are 
being blasted to the ground by blue bolts 
issuing forth from the fingers of a tall 
horned humanoid in wizard's garb. The 
painting cleverly conceals a normal-sized 
but stoutly reinforced iron-bound door (to 
area 416). A corridor about 10 feet wide and 
15 feet high slants off to the southwest. 

Trolls (4): AC4, MV 12", HD6 + 6, hp42, 38, 
35, 30, #AT3, D 5-8/5-8/2-12, SD regener 
ates (3 hp per round starting 3 rounds after 
being damaged), AL CE, SZ L (9); XP 
861, 829, 805, 765 (525 + 8/hp) 

410. COMMON ROOM 

The occupants of this area are present only 
at night. During the day one troll (from area 
409) keeps watch at this post, but the room 
is left deserted during alerts. 



Herein dwells an ettin, who acts as guard 
for this west barracks area. One of his two 
heads suffers from paranoid delusions, and 
cannot sleep if others are in the room; the 
ettin is thus forced to reside here, in the 
common room, rather than in area 415 with 
the others. This disease does not affect his 
work or combat ability, however, except to 
decrease his chance of being surprised to 1 in 
10. Due to his misfortune, this ettin has not 
partaken of the rock-throwing instruction 
as have his comrades in area 415. 

The ettin's huge bed stands by the west 
wall. One long and huge table fills the center 
of the room, bordered by ten wooden chairs 
of similar size. A fireplace in the south wall 
burns merrily. Two corridors exit to the 
west, and two large doors are in the east 
wall. 

Linder the ettin's bed is a large, flat, iron 
box. It contains 1124cp, 821 sp, 492 gp, one 
emerald (worth 1,000 gp), and the remain 
ing half of one candle of invocation of Law 
ful Good alignment. 

Ettin: AC 3, MV 12", HD 10, hp 66, #AT 2, 
D 2-16/3-18, SD surprised only on a 1; 
AL CE, SZ L (13 + ), XP 2874 (1950 + 
14/hp) 

411. NORTH STOREROOM 

Most of the provisions used by those on this 
dungeon level are kept here and in room 413. 
The room is filled with crates, barrels, boxes, 
and the like, but nothing is left unpacked. The 
containers are filled with dried meats and 
fruits, clothing, and other items of little value. 
Behind a half-empty crate near the southeast 
corner is a secret door, which can only be 
found if the crate is moved. 

412. SECRET ROOM 

This room contains a few boxes and barrels 
of provisions, as with the rooms to either 
side. Hiding in one crate are two prisoners, 
a half-ore and a human. The ettins took 
them on a recent raid, but instead of turning 
them over to the Temple authorities, hid 
them here for a future snack. The captives 
have hidden themselves in hope that the 
ettins will believe them to have escaped. 

The half-ore is an indignant fighter/thief. 
He was part of the detachment in area 244 
(Dungeon Level Two), but was scavenging 
alone on level three when picked up by the 
patrol. If found by characters, he will coop 



erate in all ways and beg for release. He will 
try to atone for his absence from his unit by 
turning against his rescuers, of course, 
should any guard units be encountered 
thereafter. 

The human, apparently a town mer 
chant, is old, wounded, and weak. This is a 
ruse, merely being the form of this dopple- 
ganger's last victim. It will play its current 
role as long as needed, but seeks escape 
from the dungeon. If rescued, it will fer 
vently promise to send a reward, and will 
fabricate a name, address, friends' names, 
and other details as needed. It will, of 
course, vanish utterly upon its release, 
heading for a more profitable area. 

Half-ore; AC 10, MV 12", Level 2/3 
Fighter/Thief, hp 10; unequipped; XP 
135 

Human prisoner (doppleganger): AC 5, MV 
9", HD 4, hp 23, #AT 1, D 1-12, SA sur 
prise on 1-4, ESP, change form, SD 
immune to sleep &. charm; XP 422 

413. SOUTH STOREROOM 

This storeroom contains provisions and 
nothing else, identical to room 411. 

414. LARGE ROOM 

Four hill giants dwell herein, members of 
the elite high guard of the Greater Temple. 
The room is simple and undecorated, about 
25 feet tall and 60 feet long. All the furnish 
ings are appropriately giant-sized. Two beds 
stand by each wall, north and south. The 
room is warmed and somewhat lit by a fire 
place in the west wall, beside which are piles 
of small boulders. The wall itself shows 
signs of digging, and is greatly pitted. (The 
giants have worked this area for missiles.) 

Linder each bed is a large chest. Each chest 
contains clothing, food scraps, various 
mixed coins (about 1,500 gp worth in each, 
with 250 pound encumbrance), a few gems 
(1-10 per box, of random value), and souve 
nirs of past kills - scalps, pelts, bones, and 
the like. 

in actuality, only three of the giants are as 
they seem. The fourth is an imposter, actu 
ally being a half-elf spy. The hill giant 
Scorpp (who is currently living it up in area 
318, unless slain by PCs) was replaced here 
by this character, one Kella by name. 
Scorpp is thus not missed in the least. 


100 




Kella is a druid, and possesses a valuable 
item made by her professional ancestors, a 
phylactery of change. This item enables 
here to use her innate shapechange ability to 
assume monster form as well as animal. The 
possible forms are still limited to monstrous 
reptile, bird, or mammal, the latter corres 
ponding to the hill giant form. The phylac 
tery does not radiate magic, and Kella 
carries no other magic items, to avoid expo 
sure by detect magic or other means. Kella 
cannot cast spells in giant form, and will do 
nothing to give away her disguise; she 
speaks only when necessary, and is so 
immersed in her role that she has become 
almost giantish in her attitudes. 

Kella has taken the form and jobs of old 
Scorpp, spying on the Greater Temple for 
the leaders of the Old Faith. She fears the 
current rise in evil power, and knows that 
time is limited. She also knows that she risks 
certain horrible death at the hands of luz 
himself should she be discovered, but things 
have gone well thus far - nearly two 
months in all. 

The half-elf can escape nearly any night if 
desired, but she awaits the arrival of some 
powerful group that might stand a chance at 
defeating the evil powers herein. If she 
notices the PCs sneaking about quietly, she 
will try to follow them and secretly reveal 
herself, if thus accepted, she will urge 
retreat so she can tell them critical things - 
the numbers and types of monsters herein, 
the habits of the leaders, which corridors go 
where, and so forth. If she does not ally with 
the party beforehand, she will hold back in 
a large melee, watching to see if the party's 
resources and courage balance those of the 
evil horde, if it seems that her powers could 
swing the balance in favor of the attackers, 
she will change to her normal half-elven 
form and aid the party as best she can. if the 
party is too quickly defeated, she will wait 
for other challengers. If the party can defeat 
the evil ones unassisted, she will certainly 
not risk anything by revealing herself, 
instead shapechanging to some small avian 
form to make her escape. 

Kella: AC 8, MV 9 " or 12", Level 9 Druid, 
hp 45, #AT 1, D by form, spell, or 
weapon, SA spells, SD spells and phylac 
tery of change, AL N; XP 3840 
S 12 I 11 W 16 D 16 Co 13 Ch 15 

Spells: 

First level: detect magic (x2), entangle, 


faerie fire (x2), shillelagh, speak with 
animals 

Second level: barkskin, charm person or 
mammal, cure light wounds, fire trap, 
obscurement, warp wood 
Third level: cure disease, neutralize poison, 
protection from fire, water breathing 
Fourth level: cure serious wounds, dispel 
magic, protection from lightning 
Fifth level: wall of fire 

Hill Giants (3): AC 4, MV 12", HD 8 + 2, hp 
59, 41, 33, #AT 1, D 2-16, SA boulders 
(D 2-16, normal ranges 6713 720 , 
indoor ranges 3 /6712"); XP 2108, 
1892, 1796(1400 + 12/hp) 

415. LARGE ROOM 

This large and undecorated room is nearly 
identical to area 414. It is the residence of 
three ettins, and is furnished in appropriate 
manner. A fireplace in the west wall offers a 
little light and heat for the occupants. The 
ettins, of course, are members of the high 
guard of the Greater Temple, as are the 
giants next door. 

These three have received some instruc 
tion in rock-throwing from their giant allies, 
and are able to hurl two per round (ranges 
376712", D 2-16 each) but with a -4 to 
hit" penalty due to minimal proficiency. 

Following advice from the human lead 
ers, the ettins have pooled their treasure, 
keeping it in the box under one bed (the last 
one checked by PCs). The other two boxes 
are also locked, but contain traps. One 
holds poisonous gas, with effects identical 
to those of a cloudkillspell (q. v.) in a cloud 
of 10 foot radius. The other is filled with 
worthless pebbles and rocks, secured by six 
poisoned darts aimed so that at least one hit 
the intruder opening the box, who must 
save vs. poison at -2 to avoid paralysis (last 
ing 2-5 turns). 

The ettins' combined treasure chest is 
locked and trapped with contact poison 
(save or die), but all the ettins know how to 
avoid it. One (randomly determined) ettin 
has the key to the chest. It contains 1,279 cp, 
883 sp, 2,010 ep, 1,421 gp, 2 violet garnets 
(500 gp each) and a ruby (5,000 gp), 2 dia 
mond brooches (worth 2,500 and 3,500 gp), 
and two nondescript rocks - one a stone of 
controlling earth elementals, the other a 
permanent sling stone + 3 (the enchantment 
upon which does not disappear through 
use). 


Ettins (3): AC 3, MV 12", HD 10, hp 70, 54, 
38, #AT 2, D 2-16/3-18, SA throw rocks 
(#AT 2, -4 "to hit", ranges 3"/6"/12", D 
2-16 each), SD surprised only on a 1; XP 
3380, 3156, 2932 (2400 + 14/hp) 

416. PLANNING ROOM 

This room is normally guarded by a troll 
(from area 409), who stands inside where he 
will not be seen from the normal entrance. 
The room is left untended during alerts. 

Ornate wall hangings and twin fireplaces 
reveal that this room is often used by those 
at the highest levels of command. A magnif 
icent oak table fills the center of the room, 
flanked by a dozen plush chairs, both nor 
mal and giant-sized. On the table are several 
books (reference works on strategy and tac 
tics, of minimal value), a dozen sheets of 
parchment bearing unintelligible scribbles, 
three quills (each in a golden quill-holder 
worth 50 gp), and two inkwells in a jeweled 
silver stand (worth 1,800 gp). 

The north wall is covered with maps of 
the dungeon levels, nearby towns, and the 
surrounding countryside. Four rich tapes 
tries (worth 1,500 gp each) adorn the east 
and west walls, and twin crystal chandeliers 
(each worth 2,000 gp) hang from the ceiling. 
A brass candle-rod (525 gp), for lighting the 
chandeliers, stands in the southwest corner 
by the fireplace. 

This planning room is the site of a daily 
afternoon conference amongst the leaders of 
the greater Temple, and of a monthly meet 
ing for all the leaders in the dungeon. Except 
for Hedrack, all visitors enter and leave by 
the south door and corridor. The emergency 
exit is rarely used, hidden by a secret door 
behind one large area map to the northwest; 
it leads to a one-way secret door in the troll 
room (area 409). The normal door in the 
west wall is always locked; it leads to the 
residence of the high priest Hedrack. 

417. PRIVATE ROOM 

Here dwells Supreme Commander 
Hedrack, High Priest and Most Honorable 
Emissary of luz Himself. Though he is often 
elsewhere, his two comely female servants 
remain in this room at all times. 

Though only 20 by 30 feet in size, 
Hedrack's abode is impressive. The floor is 
covered by thick rugs, one atop the other. 
The walls are covered by tapestries of 
ornate geometric designs, involving circles, 




squares, triangles, and the eight-pointed fire 
symbol. 

Two engraved brass braziers shed light and 
heat from the western corners of the room, 
and a large fireplace in the east wall adds its 
radiance. By the latter are brass andirons and 
matching fireplace tools. Atop a marble man 
telpiece are several knicknacks, and hanging 
on the wall above them is an excellent paint 
ing. The latter depicts the united forces of the 
Greater Temple in full battle garb standing 
before the great altar, with their human lead 
ers before them (Hedrack clearly visible in the 
center position). 

Along the north wall are two book 
shelves, one including a desk in its lower 
portion. A plush chair before the desk is 
flanked by a small wooden table. The 
shelves are filled with books of all sizes and 
colors, most bound in leather. A wooden 
bed, with carved gargoyle heads on all four 
posts and piled with silvery furs, stands by 
the center of the west wall. Upon another 
small table by the head of the bed are a 
metal pitcher and a large basin. To the left of 
the entrance stands a wardrobe, and an 
ornate unholy symbol hangs on the wall 
between it and the door. 

The furniture comprises a matched set of 
prime sablewood, all decorated by fine mar 
quetry and worth at least 700-1400 gp 
apiece. (All can be easily disassembled for 
removal.) The braziers are worth 300 gp 
each. The set of brass andirons and fireplace 
tools is worth 750 gp. Each of the ten rugs is 
worth 600-1000 gp and weighs 30-33 
pounds. Each of the 8 tapestries weighs half 
that, but is worth 400-1400 gp. 

Central on the mantel is a four-inch tall 
ebony carving of a grinning horned skull. 
This item is magical; if touched, luz imme 
diately sees this room and its current occu 
pants, wherever he may be. He might (25% 
chance) decide to come to investigate the 
disturbance, or will probably do so (75% 
chance) if his name is uttered while the figu 
rine is touched, if possible, Hedrack will use 
this item to summon luz if cornered here in 
his lair. 

Other items on the mantel include two 
ceramic plates, hand-painted but poorly 
done (by Hedrack, and worthless), a two- 
inch tall miniature dragon made of deep red 
crystal (actually of carved ruby, worth 
7,500 gp), four dinner knives with scrim 
shaw handles carved with scenes of sea 
monsters attacking vessels (each knife 
worth 100 gp), a lavender and green elipsoid 



stone (identical to an ioun stone but non- 
magical, worth 500 gp), and a small chunk 
of lava in which are embedded several tiny 
gemstones (5 very rare volcanic tourma 
lines, the whole worth 5,000 gp). The paint 
ing is worth 250 gp. 

The desk is closed and locked, but the key 
lies nearby on a shelf, and is easily found by 
any search. Within the desk are various 
parchments and record-books, showing the 
numbers and types of creatures recruited by 
all the dungeon temples in the last year, 
troop pay records, disciplinary notes, and 
the like. In one small volume, details about 
humans and humanoids are sorted into four 
sections labeled A, E, F, W - this being a 
record of sacrifices sent to the nodes. 
Among those prominently mentioned are 
Ashrem, Jaer, and Sargen (who now wander 
the Nodes), in a bottom drawer is a scroll of 
five spells, recently completed by Hedrack; 
on it are silence 15' radius, dispel magic, 
cure critical wounds, flame strike, and slay 
living. (Hedrack will recover and use this 
item against intruders if possible.) 

The bookshelves are crammed with refer 
ence works on various subjects, with an 
emphasis on battle strategy and tactics, per 
sonal improvement, leadership, and man 
agement. Most appear little-used. Each of 
the 150 books is worth 1-10 gp. One work, 
entitled Laws of the Temple', is a hollowed- 
out cache for 15 gems - 3 amethysts, 6 cit 
rines, 2 diamonds, 3 opals, and a huge black 
sapphire. (The total value is 22,300 gp, the 
last item being worth 7,500 gp and the oth 
ers 500, 50, 5,000, and 1,000 gp respec 
tively.) One tome is magical, a book of vile 
darkness that Hedrack plans to study within 
the next few months. 

The four silvery furs on the bed are 
ermine, each worth 4,000 gp and weighing 
10 pounds. The pitcher and basin are a plati 
num alloy, the set worth 500 gp. The unholy 
symbol on the wall is a spare, inset with sev 
eral paste gems and worth only 50 gp. 

in the wardrobe are five silk robes, one 
for each ceremony - brown, black, gray, 
green, and red. Upon the breast of each is an 
embroidered symbol of the golden skull, 
with the horned skull symbol of luz on the 
back. Five matching pairs of slippers lie on 
the floor of the wardrobe. Also here is a suit 
of black leather armor and matching face 
mask, occasionally worn by Hedrack when 
he tours this and other dungeon levels 
incognito to gather information. 

Hedrack's position herein as the Mouth of 



luz (among his other titles) commands the 
fear and respect of all the troops. A dark 
glance from him causes even the boldest 
giant to cringe, in deference to the dire 
powers at his command as much as his per 
sonal power. He dresses in bejeweled silks, 
and stalks about with an air of utter confi 
dence. 

Hedrack wears bracers of defense AC 4 
during normal operations, but dons his 
shining black plate mail + 3 and shield +3 
if trouble is expected (i.e. during alerts). He 
wears a ring of free action and carries a 
wand of fear at all times, and often brings 
his rod of smiting and hammer + 2 as well. 
A small magic cube and black scarab never 
leave their black velvet pouch at his belt; the 
latter controls the curtain behind the main 
altar (419 A), and the latter is a Daern's 
instant fortress, used on the infrequent 
occasions when invaders have posed severe 
threats. Hedrack's favorite tactic with this 
device is to block the exit with it, at any con 
venient place in corridors 401 or 418, 
though he will erect it in the Temple itself if 
necessary. He mans it with a dozen or more 
ogres, bugbears, and gargoyles if possible. 

Hedrack also keeps several potions in his 
quarters, and selects a few for each jaunt. 
He commonly carries those of extra healing, 
flying, and polymorph, and also has 
potions of climbing, invisibility, and speed. 
Hedrack makes scrolls as well, and has 
recently completed one of five spells: silence 
15 radius, dispel magic, cure critical 
wounds, flame strike, and slay living. 

Commander Hedrack: AC -4, Cleric L9, hp 
66, #AT 1, D 5-8 (hammer +2) or by 
spell, AL CE, XP 4392 
S 15 I 10 W 18 D 15 Co 12 Ch 16 

Spells memorized: 

First level: command (x3), cause light 
wounds, detect magic, protection from 
good 

Second level: detect charm (x2), find traps, 
hold person (x2), silence 15' radius 
Third level: animate dead, continual dark 
ness, dispel magic, bestow curse 
Fourth level: detect lie, poison, tongues 
Fifth level: dispel good 
Servants (2): AC 10, MV 15", Level 0, hp 6, 
4, #AT 1 bite, D 1-2; XP 16, 14 

418. PROMENADE 

From the landing between areas 402 and 
409, 20 foot long stairs descend ten feet fur- 


102 




ther to the grand corridor leading to the 
Greater Temple itself. The ornate murals on 
the walls continue their macabre motif, but 
the further one passes northward, the lower 
the figures become, until they all appear to 
vanish into the floor by the time the Temple 
is reached. 

This corridor is normally empty, but is 
guarded by a pair of trolls (from area 402) 
during alerts. 

419. THE GREATER TEMPLE 

This area is normally guarded by 2 trolls 
(from areas 402 and 409) and 2-3 gargoyles. 
Leaders of various races may also be 
present. During alerts, all the ogres (from 
areas 406 and 407) and gargoyles (who lair 
here) will be here, commanded by all the 
human leaders (areas 403, 404, and 417), 
who prefer defensive positions behind the 
altar drape (area 433). Other guards will be 
stationed at each corridor. (See the Troops 
Ik Sentries section of the prefactory notes.) 

This vast center of evil activity is impres 
sive in its simplicity. The ceiling a full sixty 
feet overhead appears as if a quiet outdoor 
night sky, stars gleaming in their constella 
tions. The walls are lined in smooth black 
marble or onyx, of such fine craftmanship 
that the joints can barely be detected. 

Around the sides of the room, eight corri 
dors lead off to the unknown. The walls of 
each corridor are painted a distinctive color; 
those to the south (420) are brown, the next 
(423) gray, then (426) red, and the northern 
most pair (429) green. High on the walls 
between each two corridors are small flying 
buttresses - a dozen in all - and upon 
each, sitting nearly 50 feet above the floor, 
is the statue of a gargoyle, sitting and scowl 
ing down upon the room's occupants. (Each 
gargoyle's location is marked with a G on 
the map.) These are real gargoyles, the aer 
ial defenders of the Greater Temple. They 
serve the leaders to some extent, but are 
quite likely to attack without command, 
should they sight unengaged intruders. Dur 
ing any pitched battle in the Temple itself, 
however, their favorite tactic is to wait for 
opportunity and swoop to attack those 
already engaged, moving swiftly in from the 
defenders' rear and gaining a 1 in 3 chance of 
surprise (but only if their target is busy in 
melee). 

Thirty feet north of the entrance is a series 
of broad steps, leading 5 feet upwards to a 
stone altar (A). Draped across the altar is a 



sheet of red silk, with the eight-pointed fire 
symbol embroidered upon it in golden 
thread. 

Flanking the altar are two large pillars of 
gold, which reach to the ceiling far over 
head. Each is made of common stone 
adorned by gold leaf. (Scraping the stone 
can produce 100 gp worth of shavings per 
turn.) Behind the altar is a glistening purple 
curtain, 20 feet wide and 10 feet tall, 
unmarked by any design. 

The 10 foot wide walls beside the curtain 
bear ornate carvings of the four elemental 
symbols. Each such design is over 5 feet 
wide; those of earth and water (triangle and 
square) are to the left, the others to the 
right. 

In the niches just north of the altar stand 
monumental statues, each 20 feet tall. To the 
left (B) is a humanoid garbed in robes, with 
a horned and grinning skull head (luz). To 
the right (C) is a monstrosity with a fat bul 
bous body, four elephantine legs, a long thin 
neck, and a tiny humanoid head surmount 
ing the whole (Zuggtmoy). 

in the corner behind each statue is a peep 
hole, used by those in area 433 (usually the 
human leaders) to watch these side areas of 
the Temple when the need arises. They can 
also view the area through the curtain 
behind the altar. These holes are of suffic 
ient size (nearly an inch across) to permit 
spell casting or the use of devices (such as 
wands) through them, given the proper con 
centration and aim. 

Altar Curtain 

The curtain behind the altar appears to be 
made of a shiny purple ribbed cloth. It is, in 
fact, a cluster of six violet fungi bearing spe 
cial enchantments. Unless pacified (by 
methods described below), they attack any 
one approaching within 5 feet of the south 
side. Up to 24 tentacles may be produced at 
once, sprouting forth from the curtain in an 
instant, but only 6 can attack any one man- 
sized target in range. Any hit, however, 
causes the victim to make a saving throw vs. 
poison; failure means quick rot. Anyone 
may easily push through the curtain of fun 
gus, but doing so means that 3-5 tentacles 
hit automatically. The growths otherwise 
attack as if a 6 HD monster. 

An unfortunate victim loses limbs to the 
rot at the rate of one per round; the torso 
rots last, and this causes immediate death. 
The loss of each limb causes the effective 
loss of 10% of the victim's total original hit 



points (rounded up), and this alone may 
slay an already-damaged victim. However, 
if a cure disease effect is applied within four 
full rounds of the hit, the victim's life may be 
saved. (A regenerate spell will re-grow any 
one limb and return the hit points for it at 
the same time.) 

One great defensive advantage to the cur 
tain is that those to the north of it (all the 
human leaders, in case of alert) can open it 
slightly to see through it. The curtain blocks 
all non-magical missile fire from the south 
side, but those to the north can fire from 
that direction with missiles or spells. 

This horrid drape can be quieted only by 
the presenting of a special scarab inscribed 
with the letters TZGY. (One such scarab 
may have been found in the quarters of the 
evil traders in the Village of Hommlet.) If 
such a scarab is presented towards the fungi 
in a manner similar to that of a cleric turning 
undead, all waving or attacking tentacles 
withdraw, and the curtain can be easily 
passed in safety, parting just as would a nor 
mal curtain. Each human leader in this Tem 
ple area carries a scarab of this type. 

Total immunity to disease prevents the 
fungi attacks from having any effect, of 
course. Resistances to poison also apply, but 
only as modifiers to the saving throw. The 
enchantments here are such that even total 
immunity to poison provides only a +5 
bonus to the saving throw against the rot. 

The enchanted fungi can only be dam 
aged by certain spells or magical edged or 
piercing weapons. The drape is unaffected 
by any sort of blunt weapon (including 
thrown boulders) and all mind attacks 
(including charm and hold spells of all 
sorts). Missile fire cannot pass through the 
drape to the area north of it (though those 
behind can shoot through it to the south). 
The drape will appear to take only a few 
scratches from attacks which damage it, 
remaining completely intact and active until 
the whole is destroyed (all 100 hp), when it 
crumbles to a the floor in a loathsome mass. 
Once slain, the fungi do not cause rot. 

Ceremonial Activity 

The vestments on the main altar are 
changed to reflect the current Temple activi 
ties with respect to the Nodes and Elemental 
Planes. Creatures from the Elemental Plane 
of Fire are now being summoned and sent to 
the Fire Node, as indicated by the red silk 
altarpiece. In the process of the ceremony, 
the fire creatures come forth from their 


103 





Plane and arrive in area 427, proceed from 
there into the Greater Temple, and continue 
towards area 426, from whence they are 
sent to their proper destination. 

This and similar ceremonies have been 
witnessed by all the residents of the area. 
Other elemental creatures from all the 
Planes have arrived over the past months, 
all in the same fashion. If characters manage 
to interrogate any captives, they should eas 
ily acquire a general description of this pro 
cedure, and should thus be able to deduce 
the locations of the more dangerous gates 
(those leading off to the Planes themselves). 

Violet fungi curtain: AC 7, MV 0, HD 3 
(x6), hp 100, #AT 24, D rot, SA tentacles 
to 5' range, attacks as 6 HD, SD magic 
weapon to hit, immune to blunt weapons 
and mind-attack spells, AL N(E), S2 L 
(20' x 20'); XP 1110 + 4/hp 

Gargoyles (12): AC 5, MV 9"/15", HD 
4 + 4 (hp 3-8 per die), #AT4, D 1-3/1-3/ 
1-6/1-4, SA + 1 bonus "to hit" and dam 
age when first swooping to attack, 
surprise on 1-3 when attacking a victim 
already engaged, SD hit only by + 1 or 
better magic weapons, AL CE, S2 M; XP 
165 + 5/hp 

420. BROWN CORRIDOR 

This area is normally empty. During alerts, 
one hill giant is posted inside the corridor 
entrance. 

The walls of this clean hallway are as 
black as the Temple's at the entrance, but 
quickly fade to a medium tan color within 
40 feet. They darken thereafter, reaching a 
rich nut-brown at the deepest point. On the 
walls are inscribed ornate abstract designs 
of triangles of various sizes and types, some 
containing large white eyes, and with 
bizarre and unfamiliar creatures cavorting 
amongst the angular landscape. Among 
them are a few that might be recognized by 
experienced characters - basilisks, gor- 
gons, and monsters native to the Elemental 
Plane of Earth, such as xorns. 

421. WEST EARTH GATE 

This area is normally manned by one hill 
giant. During alerts, the giant moves to the 
corridor entrance, and two bugbears take 
his position here. 

The brown corridor opens into a triangu 




lar room. The walls here are unmarked save 
for a huge triangle on each wall, and a bale 
ful red and white eye in each figure. A large 
magic circle (about 15 feet across) is 
inscribed in the center of the floor of the 
room, and within it is another triangle, but 
without an eye. 

The floor symbol marks a permanent gate 
to the Earth Node. Anyone standing within 
the magic circle for 3 segments is then 
instantly sent to area E-l (q.v.). The gate 
can send up to 10 men (with equipment) per 
round. 

422. EAST EARTH GATE 

This area is normally manned by one hill 
giant. During alerts, the giant moves to the 
corridor entrance, and two bugbears take 
his position here. 

This area is absolutely identical to area 
421, but sends those within the magic circle 
to a randomly determined point on the Ele 
mental Plane of Earth. Those sent there are 
effectively retired or lost until rescued, 
unless they possess plane-traveling abilities. 

423. GRAY CORRIDOR 

This area is normally empty. During alerts, 
one ettin is posted inside the corridor 
entrance. 

The black Temple walls quickly fade to a 
light gray as one passes down this corridor, 
becoming a dark gray with a swirling effect 
(as if clouds) at the deepest point. The corri 
dor walls are decorated in circles and oval 
designs. Winged figures and odder creatures 
are drawn among them, passing into and 
out of the circles as if such were portals. 
None of the monsters depicted can be seen 
with any clarity. 

424. EAST AIR GATE 

This area is normally manned by one ettin. 
During alerts, he moves to the corridor 
entrance, and two bugbears take his posi 
tion here. 

The gray corridor opens into a circular 
room. The walls here are elaborately painted 
to resemble the view of a storm from a peace 
ful spot within it - the eye of a hurricane. A 
large magic circle (15 feet across) is inscribed in 
the center of the floor of the room, with 
another plainer circle within it. 

The floor symbol marks a permanent gate 
to the Air Node. Anyone standing within 


the magic circle for 3 segments is then 
instantly sent to area A-l (q.v.). The gate 
can send up to 10 men (with equipment) per 
round. 

425. WEST AIRGATE 

This area is normally manned by one ettin. 
During alerts, he moves to the corridor 
entrance, and two bugbears take his posi 
tion here. 

This room is absolutely identical to area 
424, but sends those within the magic circle 
to a randomly determined point on the Ele 
mental Plane of Air. Those sent there are 
effectively retired or lost until rescued, 
unless they possess plane-traveling abilities. 

426. REDCORRIDOR 

This area is normally empty. During alerts, 
one ettin is posted inside the corridor 
entrance. 

The walls of this hallway quickly change 
from the Temples black to a dull blood-red. 
The color lightens as one progresses further, 
reaching a bright orange-red flame design at 
the deepest point. The walls are decorated 
in an abstract design of interlocking eight- 
pointed fire symbols. Drawn amongst the 
flames and symbols are pits, and from these 
rush dozens of fiery monsters, some recog 
nizable (such as efreet and salamanders, 
natives of the Elemental Plane of Fire), but 
most of them unknown. 

427. EAST FIRE GATE 

This area is normally manned by one ettin. 
During alerts, the ettin moves to the corri 
dor entrance, and two bugbears take his 
position here. 

The red corridor opens into a room 
shaped like the eight-pointed fire symbol, 
with a large identical symbol inscribed on 
the floor in the center of a magic circle 
nearly 20 feet across. The walls here are a 
riot of flaming color, with fourteen other 
fire symbols of various sizes inscribed on 
the walls of the room and two facing each 
other at the entrance. 

The floor symbol marks a permanent gate 
to the Fire Node. Anyone standing within 
the magic circle for 3 segments is then 
instantly sent to area F-l (q.v.). The gate 
can send up to 10 men (with equipment) per 
round. 


104 







428. WEST FIRE GATE 

This area is normally manned by one ettin. 
During alerts, he moves to the corridor 
entrance, and two bugbears take his posi 
tion here. 

This room is absolutely identical to area 

428. but sends those within the magic circle 
to a randomly determined point on the Ele 
mental Plane of Fire. Those sent there are 
effectively retired or lost until rescued, 
unless they possess plane-traveling abilities. 

429. GREEN CORRIDOR 

This area is normally empty. During alerts, 
one hill giant is posted inside the corridor 
entrance. 

The color of this long corridor is a deep 
blackish blue-green at the entrance, but 
lightens to a pleasant aquamarine at the 
deepest point. An abstract design of squares 
and rectangles adorns the walls, as if to 
form doors and square bubbles in the water 
motif. Tails, fins, and other parts of aquatic 
monsters jut from the water scene here and 
there, but most of the shapes portrayed are 
mere shadows lurking beneath the surface. 
Among the creatures are a few easily recog 
nizable by experienced folk - ixitxachitl, 
water gargoyles, water weirds, and the like, 
many native to the Elemental Plane of 
Water. 

430. FOYER 

This area is normally manned by one hill 
giant. During alerts, the giant moves to the 
corridor entrance, and two bugbears take 
his position here. 

The green corridor opens suddenly into a 
wide ceremonial area. The walls bear the 
same decoration, of water creatures amidst 
a chaotic sea of square and rectangular sym 
bols. The ceiling is painted to resemble the 
view upwards from underwater, the surface 
swirls and eddies reflecting light from 
above. Two large ceremonial urns stand in 
the north corners of the room. A doorway 
in the center of the north wall is 10 feet wide 
and 15 feet high, and opens into a sunken 
pool area to the north. A short stair, only 5 
feet wide, leads down into the pool through 
the doorway. 

The urns to the sides are filled with fresh 
seaweed. If consumed, a piece of weed acts 
as a water breathing potion but with a dura 
tion of 6 hours, plus 1-10 additional rounds. 


431. EAST WATER GATE 

The floor of this room is about 8 feet below 
that of area 430, and the room is nearly 
filled with water. On each wall is a perfect 
and simple square symbol, about three feet 
across. A large magic circle (about 20 feet 
across) is inscribed in the center of the floor 
of the room, at the bottom of the pool, and 
within it is another square. 

The floor symbol marks a permanent gate 
to the Water Node. Anyone standing within 
the magic circle for 3 segments is then 
instantly sent to area W-l (q.v.). The gate 
can send up to 10 men (with equipment) per 
round. 

432. WEST WATER GATE 

This area is absolutely identical to area 431, 
but sends those within the magic circle to a 
randomly determined point on the Elemen 
tal Plane of Water. Those sent there are 
effectively retired or lost until rescued, 
unless they possess plane-traveling abilities. 

433. INNERCHAMBER 

This stark area behind the altar curtain of 
the Greater Temple is marked only by three 
lesser altars, each a 10' long stone ovoid 
standing 4 feet tall. These are currently 
unadorned, but are draped for ceremonial 
occasions. The room is dimly lit by a pearly 
glow from the north (435). 

This room is normally unoccupied, used 
for storage and private ceremonies. If a bat 
tle occurs in area 419, this room is the post 
for the clerics and magic-users. Note that 
they may cast spells and fire devices 
through either the peep holes at the sides 
(the points marked a', adjacent to the 
statues in the Temple) or the violet curtain. 
Note also that defenders herein will get and 
use the magic items stored in the chests (see 
below). 

Black curtains block two side rooms. 
Each side room contains a wardrobe and 
two huge chests. Each wardrobe contains 
six vestments used by the Temple clerics in 
their ceremonies; those in room b are brown 
or red (3 of each, for Earth and Fire respec 
tively), and those in room c are green or 
grey. With the vestments are four neatly 
folded silk altar pieces of the same colors, 
each bearing the embroidered symbols of 
luz, the elements, and the golden skull. One 
altar piece of each color is 10' square, used 


in this area; the other is 25' x 13', used on 
the main altar. 

Each of the two chests in each side room is 
locked, wizard locked and fire trapped 
(both by Senshock, L9, the latter exploding 
for 10-14 points ofdamage if triggered), and 
additionally protected by two glyphs of 
warding, one forming a rectangle in which 
the chest stands and the other around the 
lock of the chest itself. These glyphs of elec 
tricity were placed by Hedrack, and explode 
for 18 points of damage (each) if a chest is 
touched without speaking the glyph s name. 

These chests contain coins used for troop 
payrolls and rewards, some scraps of parch 
ment, and a few magic items. Each chest 
contains 2,000 ep, 4,000 gp, and 1,000 pp, 
plus 2-20 pieces of parchment. Each parch 
ment is a letter of credit from the Temple to 
some individual; each note promises to pay 
an amount from 10 to 1,000 gp. The bor 
rowers include most of the Temple troops, 
guards, and leaders, since these provide 
additional means of forcing obedience. (The 
usual interest rate is 10% per week.) 

One magic item is in each chest. Present 
are a wand of ice storms with 42 charges, a 
wand of metal command with 21 charges, a 
chaotic evil candle of invocation with 3 
hours burning time remaining, and a rope of 
entanglement. The wands are usable by any 
class, and the command words are known 
to all the Temple leaders. (These items are 
described in Unearthed Arcana, pages 96- 
97; 3 charges will typically be spent with 
each use of the latter wand, to produce cry- 
stalbrittle effects.) If attackers penetrate the 
violet curtain, the defender with the rope 
will probably use it in haste, ensnaring only 
the first four to enter the area (more or less, 
depending on the situation). 

The top step of the stairs leading down to 
area 434 bears a glyph of warding (electric 
ity, for 18 points ofdamage). The 10' x 20' 
area just south of it, between the pointed 
niches, is protected by multiple glyphs. Four 
have been placed here, each 5' wide (east- 
west) and 10' long. Each can explode for 18 
points of fire or cold damage, there being 
two of each. The pointed niches themselves, 
constructed to complete the area's mimicry 
of the symbol of luz, are useful only as aids 
to defense. Anyone standing within gains a 
-4 AC bonus and can be attacked only from 
the front; however, the defender cannot 
properly wield any weapon that requires 3 
or more feet of space. (A mace or 
shortsword can be used.) 


105 





If a follower of luz calls his name while in 
this area, luz will probably respond (a 90% 
chance, checked per round if necessary). 
Defilement of any altar, either a lesser one 
here or the main one just to the south, sum 
mons luz automatically (with a 95% chance 
of gaining a response). If luz responds, he 
appears in 2-9 segments in his demoniac 
form, his two-handed sword + 3 in hand. If 
any Good beings are in this room when luz 
arrives, St. Cuthbert may (90% chance) 
arrive 2-9 segments later. If Good beings are 
in an adjacent area (419 or 434), the same 
chance applies, but Cuthbert does not 
appear for 4-32 segments. (See Appendix A 
for details on luz and St. Cuthbert.) 

Horrible punishments await anyone who 
bothers luz unnecessarily, so the Temples 
leaders will not call him unless one of two 
situations occurs - either they have won a 
battle and have captives to offer him as sac 
rifices, or their troops have lost miserably 
and they need his aid to prevent their final 
defeat. Note, however, that if a PC assault 
ing the area has completed the assembly of 
Yellowskull (by first exploring the Nodes to 
retrieve the gems of power), even the Old 
One is relatively powerless to prevent the 
final defeat of the Temple of Elemental Evil. 

434. NEXUS 

Broad stairs lead down from the inner 
chamber (433) into a round room 60 feet in 
diameter. A soft glow from the destination 
lights the stairway in an odd pearly glow 
mixed with occasional flashes of other col 
ors. 

The walls of the round chamber are verti 
cal, 20 feet tall, capped by a dome reaching 
10 feet further. In the center of the room is a 
round dais about 2 feet tall, which is pre 
cisely encircled by a column of shimmering 
light, the source of the radiant colors, which 
extends to the ceiling. 

The walls and ceiling are ornately deco 
rated by a mosaic mural, apparently made 
entirely of precious stones - emeralds, 
rubies, onyx, and the like. Not a square inch 
is uncovered. The scene on the walls is one 
of glory and conquest, showing the lands 
around as seen from the parapets of the 
Temple itself. The countryside is somewhat 
warped (in an undefinable way) but easily 
recognizable, and is filled with beings - 
human, humanoid, and monstrous mixed 
together - all facing and paying homage to 
the Temple. 



Intruders may pry out up to 65 gems with 
relative impunity, each worth 100-1000 gp. 
However, if and when a 66th gem is 
removed, the attention of luz is called to the 
chamber, and he arrives in 1-4 rounds, 
accompanied by 1-4 demons of types 1-4 
(each variable checked by a separate roll), 
luz also comes if the area is damaged by fire 
or lightning, or possibly (80% chance) if his 
name is spoken aloud by anyone in the 
chamber. 

If the pillar of light is touched or exam 
ined, refer to area 429. 

43 5. LIGHTCH AMBER 

This pillar of light in the center of area 434 is 
a cylinder 30 feet tall and 20 feet in diameter. 
It is powerfully magical, emanating altera 
tion, conjuration, enchantment, and evoca 
tion in equal measures. Details of the area 
within the light are not discernible except 
with magical aiding, or other similar aid 
reveals that an ornate silver throne occupies 
the center of the light. Looking beyond the 
throne, the observer gets the definite 
impression of vast distance, but without 
detail save a far-off swirling mist. 

Objects can easily penetrate the borders 
of the light, but any non-evil creature 
touching it immediately loses 1 level of 
experience via energy drain (no saving 
throw) and must make a saving throw vs. 
spells or take 3-30 points of electrical dam 
age and be knocked 5 feet backward. Any 
touch produces a moderately loud clap of 
thunder, emanating from the light. If the 
victim saves, all electrical damage is 
negated, and no movement is forced; the 
victim may enter the light if desired. 

The throne within is silver, adorned by hun 
dreds of precious gems. These are set to form 
leering demon faces, skulls, fungi, and like 
patterns; they are of all colors, sizes, and 
shapes. (This throne is identical to Zuggt- 
moy's, found in her Great Hall on Dungeon 
Level Three, area 364. Each gem is likewise 
linked to a demon, as explained in that area 
description.) 

The light automatically and immediately 
gives the following abilities to anyone 
within it - true seeing, detect magic, and 
ESP. The latter is even powerful enough to 
penetrate anti-scrying magic (such as an 
amulet of proof against detection and loca 
tion) 90% of the time (check per round, as 
applicable). These abilities remain as long as 
the recipient stays in the light, but instantly 



vanish upon exit from it. 

Anyone sitting in the throne is immedi 
ately in mental contact with Zuggtmoy her 
self. She cannot communicate in words or 
pictures, but may use her psionic abilities 
and disciplines to affect the user. If a fol 
lower of Zuggtmoy, the user is probably 
(90% chance, no saving throw) struck with 
fear and awe of her power, and effectively 
charmedby her for 1-6 turns. The leaders of 
the Great Temple thus use the throne to 
inform Zuggtmoy of recent events and 
needs, and receive general feelings - 
approval, pleasure, anger, etc. - from her. 
Note that through this medium, Zuggtmoy 
can freely use her psionics, whatever the 
current limits on her powers may be. 

Any non-follower who sits in the throne 
must make two more saving throws, one vs. 
spells and one vs. psionics (as per DMG 
page 78; however, see below if the victim is 
also psionic). The first is a mind attack, and 
adjustments for Wisdom apply; if failed, the 
victim is charmed (as the spell). The second 
saving throw is for an initial psionic blast 
(mode A). Success for either indicates no 
effect from the applicable attack form. The 
charm will not be repeated, but the psionic 
blasts will probably recur every round. 

Special: If the victim is psionic, run a 
standard psionic-only battle between him or 
her and the demoness. Zuggtmoy has all 
modes (ABCDE/FGH1J), with psionic 
strength 222. No multiple links are possible 
within the light chamber. The victim cannot 
rise from the throne while attacking psioni- 
cally, but may do so while using defense 
modes only. However, Zuggtmoy can and 
will break off the combat completely when 
and if her remaining strength drops to 75 or 
less. 


106 




Part 4: 

Nodes of Elemental Evil 


Four partial planes were created by Zug- 
gtmoy to be used both as sources of power 
and as places of preparation and storage. 
They are permanently and magically tied to 
the northern areas of dungeon levels 3 and 
4, and accessible from these locations if the 
proper methods are employed. 

Each of these partial planes (also called 
nodes) is filled by a tiny moon-like body, 
stranded in a small, odd, and isolated region 
of magically created space. Severely dis 
torted effects of many sorts bedevil the sur 
face of the moon, being within a mile of the 
very edge of the plane itself. Thus, the 100 
square miles of surface area is largely 
avoided. 

A small part of the interior of each node is 
in use. Although a node is almost 5 1/2 miles 
across (29,000 feet in diameter, or a total of 
94 cubic miles), the space in current use is 
only about 1600 by 2100 feet in width, vary 
ing from 10 to 250 feet in depth. 

The nodes exist only as long as their con 
nections to the dungeon remain unbroken, 
if Zuggtmoy is slain, the connections van 
ish, and the nodes do likewise. Any and all 
things within them at that time are sent 
whirling into a plane of the Abyss, either to 
Zuggtmoy's or one adjacent (planes 221 - 
223). 

On two of the node maps-those for the 
Air and Water nodes-the scale is much 
greater than on the dungeon maps. Each 
square thereon is 50 feet on a side, instead of 
10. Despite the size of the areas, however, 
indoor scale is used throughout (limiting 
range measurements). The other two maps 
(the Earth and Fire Nodes) use standard 
scale, with 10-foot squares. With standard 
slow and careful dungeon progress, a party 
may take many days to explore the entire 
node map. But once characters become 
more used to the terrain, they may move at 
up to 5 times normal rate if desired-a 6" 
rate thus moving up to 30 squares per turn 
(or 6 on the Air and Water maps). Note, 
however, that such a speedy rate increases 
chances of surprise by + 1, to 3 in 6 (2 in 6 
for rangers). 

TRANSPORTATION 

On maps 14 through 19, the symbols used 
for the elements are a square for water, the 
eight-pointed symbol of fire, a circle for air, 
and a triangle for earth. All of these symbols 
are magical, being the locations of gates. A 
sizeable glyph about 10 feet across is visible 


on the floor at each such location. Up to 
eight human-sized beings can occupy a 
glyph at one time. 

In dungeon area 351 and in each node, 
anyone standing on one of these symbols 
for three segments is sent from there to the 
appropriate elemental node. The user 
arrives at the center of the node map; see the 
appropriate area description for details. 
Each node map contains only three of the 
symbols, the one corresponding to the node 
itself being omitted. 

Dungeon area 419 has many halls which 
lead to gates to the nodes (and to the actual 
elemental planes as well), as noted in the 
area descriptions. Each gate bears a corres 
ponding symbol, and each works in similar 
fashion (but is stepped through, rather than 
stood upon). 

Anyone possessing a power gem for the 
Yellowskull can modify the transportation 
effect of the corresponding glyph (e.g. the 
smoky quartz can affect the air glyph-the 
circle-but no other). The user must hold 
the gem (either loose or mounted) while 
entering the glyph, concentrating on 
another identical glyph (those in the 
dungeon or another node). After the usual 
three segments, the user-and any other 
creature(s) entering the glyph during the 
same round-is sent to one of the identical 
glyphs, rather than the center of the corres 
ponding node. Use ld4 to randomly find the 
actual destination: 1-2= the same symbol in 
a node, 3 = dungeon level 3 (area 351), 4 = 
dungeon level 4 (area 421, 422, 424, 425, 
427, 428, 431, or 432 as per symbol). The 
glyph at the point of arrival is deactivated 
for one round by this use, but must be evac 
uated quickly lest it send the traveler(s) 
away in the next round (after the usual three 
segments of occupation). 

Note that the Orb itself is not needed for 
the above change in the use of the symbols; 
only one of the appropriate gems is 
required. The modified result applies only 
to that use of the glyph, and does not per 
manently change it in any way. 

Escape from the nodes by other means is 
highly unlikely. A wish, plane shift, and cer 
tain other spell effects may allow transpor 
tation, as detailed in the following list of 
spell modifications. No other magical or 
mundane means will succeed. The number 
of current occupants of the nodes testifies to 
the security of the whole. 


ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGE 

The climate within each node was 
designed for the comfort of the elemental 
beings within. The concentrated raw ele 
ments may cause damage to visitors. Care 
fully keep track of time when characters 
enter an elemental node. Completely unpro 
tected beings native to the Prime Plane take 
1-4 points of damage each turn of exposure 
in the node. Any being with AC 2 or better 
takes only 1-3 points per turn. Practical 
non-magical aids (furs or coats in the chilly 
air node, removing armor in the fire node, 
and so forth) reduces damage to 1-2 points 
per turn. Any magical or innate resistance 
to the element or its effects negates environ 
mental damage completely. 

Environmental damage is sporadic, not 
constant. It does not absolutely prevent 
spell casting, but may cause problems. The 
DM should check each spell cast, rolling 
ld6; if the result is 1, the caster takes some 
of the environmental damage during the 
casting, which spoils the spell and prevents 
its completion. Ignore this effect, of course, 
if the caster is magically immune to the envi 
ronmental damage. 

DEVELOPMENT 

in play, the characters may find their way 
to the nodes in search of some means of 
destroying Zuggtmoy, the Temple, and so 
forth -and the gems of the nodes provide 
the keys to do so, given the discovery of the 
Orb as well (either before or after the gems' 
recovery, actually). But if they blunder into 
the nodes, or are forced therein by the press 
of a massed monster attack (especially on 
Dungeon Level Four), they will doubtless 
spend much time there, wandering and 
searching for the exit. Such victims are 
nearly doomed unless they find and then 
discover the uses of the gems of power. 

Space does not here permit a full descrip 
tion of each small part of the four nodes; 
after all, even with the limited space in use, 
each node complex comprises more area 
than all four dungeon levels! Random and 
placed encounters are given, with other 
notes, so that the whole is playable as it 
stands. But a small amount of time, effort, 
and skill on your part can develop the rough 
notes into fully polished gems of adventure, 
just aching for discovery. 

The map areas have been numbered to 
ease your further development. Suggested 


107 




areas for lairs are given in the area notes. 
Select from the monster lists to populate the 
map areas, and add rewards appropriate to 
the treasure types. When magic is indicated, 
roll Id 100 and refer to the Magic Treasure 
Table to find the exact items. 

Hundreds of adventurers, humanoids, 
and others have vanished into the nodes, 
and their traces (or even descendants or sur 
vivors!) may be found anywhere. Sacrifices 
arrive daily, even now at a low point of the 
Temple's power, taken through the long 
halls and tossed through the gates by the 
clerics and troops of the Greater Temple on 
Dungeon Level Four. 

if any notable NPCs in your campaign 
have been missing, they might show up 
here. The same applies to singular magical 
devices once in their (or others') possession, 
of course. And for higher level parties, cer 
tain powerful creatures once banished from 
or defeated on the Prime Plane due to past 
character actions might be found herein, 
having struck a pact with luz and Zuggtmoy 
in exchange for permanent or temporary 
visiting rights.... 

Herein should be all the tools for you, as 
Dungeon Master, to tailor the game to the 
characters. If their powers are lacking, they 
can find equipment and allies. If healthy, 
they should not lack for opponents. You 
have complete control, with the freedom to 
add subplots, clues, suspense, and excite 
ment as you see fit. 

in short, develop the nodes to suit your 
self and your characters. Apply the general 
modifications given for magic, and the 


guidelines for resident creatures, but elabo 
rate and expand on the basics given so that 
the adventures herein are challenging and 
meaningful to your players, while offering 
some slim chance of victory and escape. 

MODIFICATIONS TO MAGIC 

The elemental nodes are very close to the 
Prime Plane, so distance causes no ill effects 
to most magical items. No 'plusses' are lost 
from permanent items. However, many 
spell effects may be altered, and effects pro 
duced by devices may be likewise (based on 
the similar spell effect). 

Element-based effects and attacks have 
double effect (range, duration, damage, 
etc.) in the node of the same element, but 
half effect in one opposite node. For exam 
ple, a fireball would explode to double vol 
ume (67,020 cubic feet, ora sphere of about 
25' radius) and double damage in the fire 
node, or half volume (16,705 cubic feet, or 
just under 16 radius) in the water node. 
Water and ice-based effects are halved in the 
fire node; air and earth-based attacks are 
modified in like manner. When an effect is 
based on two elements, modifications are 
halved-i.e. one-quarter damage instead of 
half, or 50% extra instead of doubled. Sav 
ing throws against double-strength effects 
are made at -4, and at + 4 against half 
strength. 

Refer to the lists below for other altera 
tions (both mandatory and possible) in 
spells and spell-like effects produced by 
items. 


SPELL VARIATIONS 

Some spells (but not item effects) can be 
deliberately altered if the caster knows how 
to do so. When the phrase 'Can be cast as...' 
is given in the listing, the spell caster can 
learn how to produce the given altered 
effect when the spell has been cast 2-3 times. 
In such listings, element' refers to the local 
material at hand-create element creates 
fire in the fire node, earth in that node, and 
so forth. Once an altered version is under 
stood, it may be used on any element (i.e. 
separate practice is not required for each), 
and may even be transcribed onto a scroll in 
modified form, for later use, sale, research, 
etc. The unchanged spell may still be cast in 
any node except for its 'opposite' (as 
detailed above). 

To introduce the spell variations in play, 
check each spell cast in a node against the fol 
lowing list. If it can be modified, tell the player 
that the character senses the potential change, 
and can learn more with just a bit of practice. 
When the character learns the modified ver 
sions, it may be helpful to check off the spell 
on the list below, or to note the name of the 
caster for future reference. 

Cleric Spells 

aerial servant: Works only in the air node, 
animate object: Automatically works on 
solid elemental objects of all sorts, 
control weather: No effect, 
create water, create food water: Can be 
cast to 'create element 1 instead of water. 


108 






divination: Reveals information about 
500' x 500 only (10 x 10 map 
squares). 

earthquake: Can be cast as 'element-quake', 
with normal effects. 

flame strike: Can be cast as 'element strike', 
with normal effects, 
gate: Allows escape to plane of choice, 
holy word: All the elemental beings are 'at 
home 1 in their respective nodes, so they 
are not sent elsewhere. Damage is 
accrued normally, 
insect plague: No effect, 
lower water: Can be cast as lower element', 
part water: Can be cast as 'part element', 
plane shift: Allows escape to the plane of the 
spell component s orientation, 
resist cold: Can be cast as resist element', 
with normal effects. 

resist fire: Can be cast as resist element', 
with normal effects. 

stone tell: Works on elemental objects of all 
sorts. 

wind walk: Can be cast as element walk 1 , 
with normal effects. 

Druid Spells 

animal summoning (any): No effect, 
animate rock: Can be cast as 'animate ele 
ment', with normal effects, 
call lightning: Works only in the air node, 
call woodland beings: No effect, 
chariot of Sustarre: Works only in the fire 
node. 

commune with nature: No effect, 
conjure earth elemental: No effect in air 
node (only). 

conjure fire elemental: No effect in water 
node (only). 

control temperature: Negates environmen 
tal damage from fire and air nodes 
(only). 

control weather: No effect, 
control winds: Works only in the air node, 
create water: See the cleric spell, 
creeping doom: No effect, 
entangle: Works on any elemental plant- 
equivalent, including immobile molds 
but excluding mobile growths, 
faerie fire: Apply element modifications as 
if standard magical fire, 
fire storm: Can be cast as element storm 1 , 
with normal effects, 
insect plague: No effect, 
obscurement: Can be cast to produce a 
cloud of any element (smoke, dust, 
sparks, fog). 



predict weather: No effect, 
produce fire: Can be cast as produce ele 
ment', with normal effects, 
produce flame: Can be cast as 'produce ele 
ment', with normal effects, 
protection from fire: Can be cast as protec 
tion from element' (negating environ 
mental damage and affecting 
element-based attacks), 
purify water: Can be cast as 'purify ele 
ment 1 , with normal effects, 
stone shape: Can be cast as 'shape element 1 , 
with normal effects, 
summon insects: No effect, 
transmute rock to mud: Can transmute any 
solid element to liquid, with normal 
effects. 

wall of Are: Can be cast as wall of element', 
with normal effects. 

water breathing: Can be cast as 'element 
breathing 1 , which negates environmental 
damage. 

weather summoning: No effect. 

Magic-User Spells 

affect normal fires: No effect in fire node, 
airy water: Can be cast as airy element', 
with normal effects and negating envi 
ronmental damage for all in the area of 
effect. 

anti-magic shell: Danger! Cuts off all benefi 
cial magical effects which contain the ele 
ments in the environment. Increase 
damage (1 to 4, as noted above) from per 
turn to per round. 

doudkill: Automatically creates a cloud of 
poisonous element (gas, dust, smoke, or 
mist) appropriate to the plane, 
cone of cold: Modify as if air-based, 
conjure elemental: Attracts the attention of 
all elementals in the node, but does not 
bestow control nor have any other 
effect. 

contact other plane: Check all results at 1 
line lower (more distant), 
control weather: No effect, 
distance distortion: Can be cast using an ele 
mental native to the node, with normal 
effects. 

fire charm: Modify as if magical fire, 
gate: Allows escape to plane of choice, 
glassee: Can be cast to affect any one solid 
element. 

globe of invulnerability: Doubles environ 
mental damage (blocks some beneficial 
magic; q.v. anti-magic shell), 
ice storm: For the hail, /3 of the damage 



(2dlO) is from the blows. The remainder 
is from the cold (air element), and modi 
fied accordingly. 

incendiary cloud: This attack form is based 
on both air and fire, modified accord 
ingly. 

lightning bolt: No effect in earth node. Note 
underwater changes for water node 
(DMG page 57). 

lower water: See the cleric spell, 
maze: The size of the maze is limited (just as 
is the node); find results 1 line down 
(faster than normal), 
monster summoning (any): No effect, 
move earth: Can be cast as 'move element', 
phase door. If used at the boundary of the 
node, this allows escape into the ethereal 
plane. 

pyrotechnics: Can be cast to affect any one 
element. 

statue: Can be used to assume any solid ele 
mental form. 

stinking cloud: Can be cast to create any ele 
ment, with normal effects, 
stone shape: Can be cast as 'shape element', 
with normal effects. 

teleport: Cannot be used to escape from the 
node. 

transmute rock to mud: See the druid spell, 
vanish: Too-heavy objects are replaced with 
the element (not limited to stone), but 
are lost in the abyss, not merely dis 
placed into the ether. 

wall of stone: Can be cast as wall of ele 
ment', with normal effects, 
water breathing: See the cleric spell, 
web: Can be made of the local element, with 
normal effects. 

wish: Can be used to affect the contents of 
the same node only; cannot affect other 
nodes or planes. Can be used to take up 
to 10 beings to the Prime Plane, to a loca 
tion of the caster's choice, with no 
chance of error. 

Illusionist Spells 

alter reality: Can be cast to create an escape 
route to any adjacent plane, 
fog cloud: Can be cast as 'elemental cloud'; 

see obscurement (druid spell), 
maze: See the magic-user spell, 
summon shadow: No effect, 
wall of fog: Can be cast as wall of element 1 ; 
see obscurement (druid spell). 


109 




TABLE OF MAGICAL TREASURES 

When developing encounter areas in the 
Nodes of Elemental Evil, use items from the 
following table if magical treasure is indicated 
by random roll for the monsters' treasure 
type. Roll IdlOO to determine the exact item. 
Place the item and delete it from the table; roll 
again if the same roll occurs again. If all these 
items are used, select magic randomly (DMG 
pages 121-125) but ignore artifacts and books 
(librams, manuals, tomes, et al.). This should 
not be necessary unless multiple parties spend 
great amounts of time exploring the nodes in 
detail. 

Note that all spells on spell scrolls given 
below are detailed in Unearthed Arcana and 
are of lst-7th level (though you are not 
bound by either guideline in generating 
additional magic items). You may divide the 
scrolls given, if desired, into several smaller 
ones. Other items detailed in Unearthed 
Arcana are indicated by the initials UA. 

d% item 

01 Potion of super-heroism 

02 Wand of lightning bolts (67 charges, 

UA) 

03 Sovereign glue (UA) 

04 Scroll of 5 cleric spells (levels 1, 2, 3, 

4, 5): endure cold/heat, aid, nega 
tive plane protection, cloak of fear, 
spike growth 
05 Plate mail + 1 

06 Potion of fire giant strength 

07 Rod of resurrection (15 charges) 

08 Ring of shocking grasp (UA) 

09 Mace +2 

10 Scroll of protection from acid (UA) 

11 Potion of levitation 

12 Hat of disguise (UA) 

13 Scroll of protection from magic 

14 Shield +2 

15 Longsword +2, +4 vs. lycan- 

thropes and shape changers 

16 Potion of invisibility 

17 Periapt of proof against poison 

18 Scroll of 6 cleric spells (levels 1, 2, 3, 
3, 4, 5): precipitation, withdraw, 
cloudburst, remove paralysis, imbue 
with spell ability, rainbow 

19 Plate mail + 1 

20 Wand of paralyzation (M) (53 
charges) 

21 Potion of polymorph (self) 

22 Scroll of protection from elementals 
(all) 

23 Staff of striking (C, M) (11 charges) 


24 Chain mail + 1 

25 Two-handed sword +1, +2 vs. 

dragons 

26 Potion of healing 

27 Longsword + 1 ( Snoop 1 , AL NG, Int 
13, empathy; can detect invisible 
and detect magic, each to 10' range) 

28 Bracers of defense AC 3 

29 Spear + 1 

30 Scroll of protection from traps (UA) 

31 Plate mail + 2 

32 Potion of fire breath (UA) 

33 Helm of underwater action 

34 Shortsword + 4, defender 

35 Ring of shooting stars 

36 Potion of flying 

37 Scroll of 6 magic-user spells (levels 1, 
2, 3, 4, 6, 6): run, preserve, item, 
stoneskin, contingency, eyebite 

38 Figurine, marble elephant (Asiatic) 

39 Spear + 2 

40 Dagger + 2 

41 Potion of speed 

42 Cloak of protection +2 

43 Scroll of protection from electricity 

(UA) 

44 Longsword +2, + 3 vs. magic-using 
and enchanted creatures 

45 Light crossbow + 1 

46 Potion of rainbow hues (UA) 

47 Scarab of protection -2 (cursed) 

48 Shield +1 

49 Ring of feather falling 

50 Decanter of endless water 

51 Scroll of 6 illusionist spells (levels 1, 
2, 3, 4, 5, 5): phantom armor, alter 
self, wraithform, rainbow pattern, 
advanced illusion, dream 

52 Potion of ESP 

53 Shield +3 

54 Bracers of archery (UA) 

55 Arrows + I (10) 

56 Potion of water breathing (4 doses) 

57 Battle axe + 1 

58 Scroll of 7 druid spells (levels 1,1,2, 
2, 3, 3, 5); detect balance, detect poi 
son, flame blade, reflecting pool, 
spike growth, starshine, moonbeam 

59 Crossbow bolts + 1 (12, light) 

60 Leather armor + 1 

61 Potion of heroism 

62 Broadsword + 1, flame tongue 

63 Scroll of 4 illusionist spells (levels 1, 
2, 3, 4): chromatic orb, fascinate, 
delude, dispel magic 

64 Plate mail of vulnerability 

65 Shield + 1 

66 Potion of climbing 


67 Chain mail + 3 

68 Longsword, cursed berserking 

69 Boots of levitation (420 pound limit) 

70 Bastard sword +1, +3 vs. giant 

class creatures 

71 Potion of gaseous form 

72 Ring of fire resistance 

73 Longsword + 3 

74 Mace + 1 

75 Potion of fire resistance 

76 Broadsword of life stealing + 2 

77 Scroll of 7 magic-user spells (levels 1, 
_ 1. 3. 3. 4, 5. 5): taunt, wizard mark. 

material, wind wall, magic mirror, 
avoidance, fabricate 

78 Rope of climbing 

79 Splint mail + 1 

80 Necklace of strangulation 

81 Potion of clairaudience 

82 Hammer + 1 

83 Axe +1 

84 Scroll of 5 magic-user spells (levels 1, 
2, 6, 7, 7): firewater, flaming sphere, 
chain lightning, sequester, volley 

85 Short composite bow + 2 

86 Potion of flying (actually delusion) 

87 Chain mail + 1 

88 Longsword + 1 

89 Gauntlets of dexterity 

90 Wand of size alteration (24 charges, 
UA) 

91 Scroll of 5 cleric spells (levels 1, 2, 3, 
4 , 5); magic stone, wyvern watch, 
death's door, spike stones, air walk 

92 Potion of extra-healing 

93 Dagger +1, +3 vs. persons (all 

those affected by a hold person spell) 

94 Scale mail + 1 

95 Shield + 1 

96 Ring of protection + 2 

97 Potion of ventriloquism (UA) 

98 Scroll of 6 magic-user spells (levels 2, 
2, 2, 4, 5, 7); bind, irritation, vocal 
ize, shout, dolor, forcecage 

99 Dust of disappearance 

00 Scimitar + 1 ( Schakha 1 , AL LN, Int 

14; speaks alignment, azer, giant 
common, human common, and 
dwarf; can detect gems 5', detect 
secret doors 5', detect traps 10 ) 

RESIDENTS 

Most of the creatures inhabiting the nodes 

were brought or summoned here from the 

Elemental Planes by Zuggtmoy or luz. 

Some came from the Prime, trapped or 

lured here. Very few have escaped, even 





after many long years. Zuggtmoy's beloved 
molds and goops also wander the nodes, 
coming and going at the bidding of their 
mistress. 

It is important to note that the elementals 
and related creatures herein are free-willed, 
not conjured or summoned, but are 
trapped. They are unaffected by dispel 
magic, and are not blocked by protection 
from evil. They are also not necessarily hos 
tile, being Neutral and as eager to escape as 
are the characters. Should communication 
be established, or some indication of friend 
liness be given (such as offered treasure or 
food), elementals might very well agree to 
peaceful coexistence or even a limited part 
nership for a time. 

The lists of creatures found in the Nodes 
give numbers appearing, but you may mod 
ify these to suit the PCs' level and relative 
health. Most creatures should be initially 
encountered in small numbers, roving near 
or far from their lair. Do not suddenly intro 
duce the entire complement of a creature 
type in one sudden swoop. The several true 
elementals found in each Node should be 
encountered singly, having no actual lair. 
Finally, some few residents, especially the 
evil ones of lower intelligence, may still be 
working toward a greater goal set by their 
leaders luz and Zuggtmoy long ago. They 
may be developing areas, digging new tun 
nels, or simply patrolling for intruders, in 
any event they are dangerous fanatics, 
fighting to the death to ensure the continued 
completion of their assigned tasks. 

RANDOM ENCOUNTERS 

To check for wandering monsters in any 
node, roll IdlOO once per turn and refer to 
the table. All monsters are considered 
native to their nodes, and do not take envi 
ronmental damage. Wandering humans are 
garbed in a manner appropriate to their sur 
roundings, and have become immune to 
environmental effects through long expo 
sure to them. 

Statistics for Zuggtmoy's pets can be 
found in Appendix B (under Zuggtmoy); 
node residents are described in the following 
encounter keys. A few wandering humans 
are detailed below. 

Ashrem 

This bitter old man was once the chief 
cleric of the air temple (dungeon area 210), 
but was replaced by Kelno a few years ago. 


Betrayed by his brother Alrrem (of the fire 
temple, area 212), he was sacrificed to the 
air temple and cast off into the nodes. But 
his feigned death saved him; he was able to 
cure his near-mortal wounds, and has sur 
vived in the nodes by avoiding everyone 
and scavenging what materials he can find. 
He has a cache of spell components, both 
clerical and magic-user types, hidden some 
where in the nodes, and will use this to bar 
ter should he be endangered by adventurers. 

Ashrem lives for revenge on his brother. 
He wears ill-fitting and damaged chain mail, 
taken from the body of a larger fighter, and 
carries a scarred shield bearing the symbol 
of Sir Robilar (a green dragon on yellow 
field). He carries a mace, hammer, and 
many empty sacks (both small and large) 
for scavenging. 

If questioned, Ashrem reveals his name 
and profession, and seeks aid in escaping. 
He will eagerly join a party if asked. He has 
seen most of the other wandering humans at 
some time or another, but has avoided 
them, believing them hostile and danger 
ous. 

IdlOO Result 

01 Ascomid 
02 Basidirond 
03-04 Gray ooze 
05-06 Ochre jelly 
07 Phycomid 
08-10 Pudding* 

11 Ustilagor 

12 Zygom 

13 Wandering human (roll again)** 
14-20 Node resident*** 

21-00 No encounter 

* Pudding type varies by node: air = white, 

earth = black, fire = dun, water = brown 

* * See list below 

* * * Select or randomly determine one mon 

ster of the types placed in the node. 

Wandering humans (roll IdlOO) 

Roll Result Roll Result 

01-20 Ashrem 51-65 Jaer 

21-40 Bandits 66-85 Sargen 
41-50 Darley 86-00 Taki 

Ashrem: AC 4; MV 12"; AL CE; Cleric L6; 
hp 35; #AT 1; D by weapon; XP 635 
S 13 I 10 W 17 D 9 Co 15 Ch 7 

Bandits 

A large group of bandits once visited the 



fourth dungeon level in search of the 
rumored great wealth therein. They found 
the gates to the nodes, and their leader 
ordered them through when approaching 
ettins were sighted. The leader has since 
been slain by monsters, as were over a 
dozen of the bandits. 

The remaining seven bandits are led by 
their cleric, who literally rules by the 
powers of life and death he wields through 
his spells. They are scavengers and cow 
ards, having survived nearly two months by 
their methods, if left alone, they will lose 
one of their number each 1-4 days, until 
none remain. 

The bandits prefer to attack from 
ambush, so an encounter with them will 
probably (75%) given them 1-3 surprise seg 
ments from such a situation, if so, they 
begin with missile fire from cover. They pre 
fer to remain behind cover for as long as 
possible, but will engage if necessary. When 
wounded, however, any bandit will flee at 
the beginning of the following round. 

Bandits (7): AC 8 (leather armor), MV 12", 
Level 0 (HD 1-1), #AT 1 or 2, D by 
weapon, SA all have shortbows (D 1-6/ 
1-6, range 6"/ 12 "18"), each with 40 
arrows; AL NE, XPV 14 + 1/hp 

Grank, bandit leader/cleric: AC 4 (chain Ik 
shield), MV 12", Cleric L3, hp 17, #AT 1, 
D by weapon, SA spells, AL NE, XPV 

171 

S 13 1 10 W 16 D 12 Co 9 Ch 14 

Spells (4,3): cure light wounds (x4), hold 
person, resist element (x2) 

Darley 

When encountered, Darley appears as a 
comely human female clad in robes. She is 
friendly, and claims to be a magic-user. She 
will eagerly join a party if invited, and will 
behave perfectly for at least two days of 
adventuring to allay any suspicions. 

Darley is an alu-demon who was once 
part of a demonic faction allied against luz. 
The group was utterly defeated, of course, 
and its members scattered, banished, or 
imprisoned. Darley is one of the lucky ones, 
allowed to wander here in the nodes. 

Darley fakes spellcasting gestures and 
sounds, in conjunction with her spell-like abil 
ities, to bolster her magic-user image. She can 
use any of the following abilities up to once 
per round, each up to three times daily at 12th 
level ability: charm person, ESP, shapechange 


111 




DARLEY 






ASHREM 












(to humanoid form of same size &. weight), 
and suggestion. She can also use dimension 
door once per day. Her vampiric touch 
inflicts 1-8 points of damage, and cures her 
self of 1-4 at the same time. 

Darley's true form is very similar to her 
human one, with the small addition of ves 
tigial horns and small bat-like wings. She 
will retain human form indefinitely to keep 
up the masquerade. 

Darley: AC 5, MV 12'/12" (MC:C), AL 
CE, HD 6 + 2, hp, #AT 1 or 1, D by 
weapon or 1-8 (touch), SA spell-like 
powers, vampiric touch, SD 30% MR, 
magic or iron weapon to hit, touch cures 
1-4 points, SZ M (5 ), XP 3000 + 14/hp 
S 13 1 15 W9 D 10 Co 16 Ch 14 

Jaer 

The weaver Jaer, once a solid resident of 
Nulb, came upon hard times and joined a 
group of bandits. He regretted his choice 
almost immediately, but when he tried to 
quit, was given to and questioned by the 
leaders of the Greater Temple, and then 
thrown into the nodes. 

Jaer's survival is due to his craft. He has 
made armor, shield, and tools by weaving 
scraps he has found. He has wandered the 
nodes for only three weeks, and is becoming 
desperate. He was once looted and chased 
off by the wandering bandits, and thus will 
be distrustful of the party at first. But he will 
eagerly ally with a friendly group, and will 
put his skills to good use. 

Jaer's weapons include a normal sword, 
dagger, and hammer, and also 20 'fire balls' 
-woven bundles of flammable material, 
which can be ignited and thrown to 3" 
range, inflicting 1-4 points of damage if a hit 
is scored. Jaer carries a lit lamp most of the 
time for igniting his fire balls. 

Jaer: AC 6 (woven-padded armor &. shield), 
MV 12", AL N, Level 0, hp 7, #AT 1, D 
by weapon, SA fire balls, XP 25 
S 10 I 14 W 13 D 15 Co 12 Ch 11 

Sargen 

This magic-user once came to the Temple 
in search of work, but was soon imprisoned 
and thrown to the nodes due to philosophi 
cal differences. He has little equipment, 
having survived by hiding and eating any 
thing he could find. He has passed into 
insanity in the last months, and believes 
every creature he sees to be a demon or devil 




of some sort. 

When encountered, Sargen has worked 
up his courage and approaches the party, 
groveling. Believing them to be a troupe of 
wandering demons, he plans to beg for 
release, offering thousands of gold pieces 
and future service in exchange. (His cash is 
at his home, on the Prime Plane, but is quite 
real.) If attacked or threatened, he flees 
immediately, and future encounters will be 
at a distance, again causing him to flee. 

Sargen only retains two spells, saved for 
emergencies-invisibility and fly. His spell 
book is long lost. 

Sargen: AC 10, MV 12", AL LE, Magic-user 
L5, hp 14, #AT 1, D 1-4 (dagger), SD 
spells, XP 240 

S 12 I 16 W9 D 10 Co 15 Ch 8 

Taki 

This fearsome fighter stands a full seven 
feet tall, and wears his own shining sky-blue 
plate mail armor and shield, and carries sev 
eral weapons-dagger, longsword, long 
bow, and others. He was separated from his 
party about four months ago when they 
entered the Greater Temple. He was forced 
to retreat down a side corridor, and ended 
up in the nodes (fully equipped). 

Taki has survived by brute force. He once 
allied with Ashrem for a short time, receiv 
ing curing in exchange for his combat prow 
ess. But after being tricked several times, his 
dislike of the cleric grew, and he went off on 
his own. 

Taki will be suspicious of any party he 
meets but, if invited, will adventure with 
them for an hour or two, provided that any 
of his wounds are cured by PCs. He departs 
to sleep in a hiding place of his own prefer 
ence, away from the party. After two or 
three days with a well-behaved and intelli 
gent party, he will Join them if asked. Any 
evil or stupid behavior, however, causes 
him to leave and continue his lonely quest 
for escape. 

Taki: AC 0, MV 12 ", AL NG, Fighter L7, hp 
55, #AT 1, D by weapon, XP 1040 
S 18/28 I 12 W8 D 16 Co 13 Ch 10 

Air Node 

DESCRIPTION 

Within the Air Caverns, the atmosphere 
is cool and windy. The relatively constant 


60 degree temperature (F) is comfortable to 
all herein, but the winds range from mild 
gusts of 10-20 mph to full gales of 100 + 
mph. The environmental damage is due to 
dust, pebbles, and other debris blown by 
the winds. 

Those arriving in the air caverns appear on 
a plateau atop a central spire, standing 200 feet 
above the floor level and reaching to within 50 
feet of the cavern's roof. A steep slope down 
spirals widdershins from the peak. 

Light seems to come from the ceiling of 
the cavern, casting a soft twilight glow 
throughout the area. The visibility from the 
peak is fair; many cave entrances can be 
dimly seen in the distance. Dense clouds of 
random shapes and sizes drift in the great 
cavern. Though they are constantly pushed 
and torn by the winds, they do not disperse 
easily. At floor level, however, visibility 
varies widely. When necessary, the DM may 
roll 2d4 to find the number of map squares 
(each 50' across) visible in any one direc 
tion, but this could change in a short time, 
possibly only a round or two. 

The slopes, stairs, and caverns themsel 
ves are hewn of solid rock, apparently by 
very good craftsmen. All surfaces are 
strewn with rubble, an occasional bone or 
bit of lost, worn equipment, and an infre 
quent shallow pit or landslide. 

Though most of the Air Caverns are dry 
and fairly mild, areas #13-16 are dotted with 
pools of icy water, with frozen lumps on the 
walls. These caves are even cooler towards 
their northern ends, where part of a glacial 
outcropping can be seen (areas 15-16). 

BRIEF AREA NOTES 

A 1 Top of peak (point of arrival) 

A 2 East floor area 
A 3 North floor area 
A 4 South floor area 
A 5 Huge cavern south, at ground level 
A 6 Shelf, 120' above floor level, reached 
by a slope to the west 
A 7 Cave at ground level 
A 8 Hidden niche, 80' above ground 
level, reached by a slope to the north. 
At the east end of the niche is an 
eight-pointed symbol, gate to the Fire 
Node. 

A 9 Large branch cave, at ground level: 
contains three outcroppings of hard 
rock, each projecting 10-60 feet above 
floor level 

A 10 North niche (lair) of branch cave 


114 





A 11 East niche (lair), 100' above floor 
level, reached by a slope to the west 
A 12 Northeast niche (lair), as #11. 

A 13 Small cave at ground level 
A 14 Northeast corridor, at ground level 
A 15 Small cave, with entrance sloping 
down 20 feet from ground level; the 
north wall is almost entirely jagged 
ice 

A 16 Large cave at ground level (lair); the 
north wall is mostly ice 
A 17 Shelf, 40' above ground level, 
reached by a short slope to the south 
A 18 Cave, reached from shelf #17; lair of 
ildriss grues. In their treasure is one of 
the power gems, the aquamarine, 
which will send anyone touching it to 
the Water Node. 

A 19 Corridor sloping up from ground 
level, reaching 30-foot height at area 
20 

A 20 Wide cave 
A 21 South cave (lair) 

A 22 Shelf, 70' above ground level (40 
above area 19), reached by a slope to 
the northeast (lair) 

A 23. Shelf, 50' above ground level, 
reached by a slope to the east (lair) 

A 24 Elongated cavern 
A 25 Shelf, 130' above ground level, 
reached by a long slope to the south 
A 26 Cavern, 90' above ground level, 
reached by the slope to area 25 
A 27 Large cavern at ground level. At the 
west end is a square symbol, gate to 
the Water Node. 

A 28 Large cavern at ground level 
A 29 North corridor branch sloping up 30 
A 30 West cavern, ground level 
A 31 Southwest cavern, ground level 
A 32 Hidden cavern (entrance 10 wide); 
slopes up from entrance to 40' above 
ground level at the south end. Near 
the end is a triangular symbol, gate to 
the Earth Node. 

RESIDENTS 

Dragons, White (3): AL CE, MV 12 730" 
(MC:E), HD 5 (hp 10), 6 (hp 42), 6 (hp 
48), AC 3, #AT 3, D 1-4/1-4/2-16, SA 
breath cone frost 70 x 25', SZ L (24 ), 
IN Average; 1L 20%, TTE, O, S: XP 405, 
852,888 

This family shares a single lair. Note the 
bonuses gained by the adults if their off 
spring is attacked, as given in MM1, p. 30. 



Elementals, Air (6): AL N, MV 36 "/36" 
(MC:A), HD 8 (x3), 12 (x2), 16, AC 2, 
#AT 1, D 2-20, SA whirlwind (1 turn to 
create) slays under 3 HD, D 2-16 to oth 
ers, SD + 2 weapon to hit, SZ L, IN Low; 
XP 825 + 10/hp, 2850 + 15/hp, 5250 + 
20/hp 

These should be encountered singly or in 
pairs. They have no lair. 

Giants, Cloud (5): AL NE, MV 15 ", HD 12 + 
2-7, AC 2, #AT 1, D 3-36, SA throw 
rocks to 24" range (D 2-24), SD surprised 
on 1, SZ L (18), IN Average-Very; IL 
40%, TT E, Qx5; XP 4250 + 16/hp 
The cloud giants have a well-defendable 
lair, and may (50% chance) have 1-3 human 
captives, holding them as slaves and for 
future ransom or meals. These are level 0-7 
(ld8-l) NPCs of any class, with no equip 
ment. 

Hieracosphinx (2 lairs of 4 each): AL CE, 

MV 9 /36" (MC:D), HD 9, AC 1, #AT 
3, D 2-8/2-8/1-10, SZ L (7 ), IN Low; IL 
20%, TT E; XP 600 + 12/hp 
These hawk-headed predators may be 
serving as steeds for some other residents, in 
exchange for an equal share of gains. They 
lair on high shelves. 

Ildriss grues (8): AL NE, MV 3" or 24" 

(MC:A), HD 4, AC 2, #AT 1, D 3-12, SD 
+ 2 weapon to hit, SZ M, IN Low-Very; 
IL 10%, TTQx2, X; XP 245 + 5/hp 
These creatures are invisible until they 
attack in fog cloud form. All air and 
weather-based effects are dispelled within 
50 feet of them. 

Mihstu (2): AL NE, MV 6"/6" (MC;B), HD 
8 + 2, AC -2, #AT 4, D 2-7 each, SA 
envelop = drain 1 point Constitution 
(rest regains I/day), SD + 2 weapon to 
hit, immune to missiles, electricity, Ik 
magic missile, MR 10%, SZ M (6'), IN 
High; IL 10%, TT I; XP 1700 + 12/hp 
These dangerous monsters share a single 
lair, and have double the given chances for 
treasures. 

Toads, Giant Ice (10): AL N, MV 9", HD 5, 
AC 4, #AT 1, D 3-12, SA radiate cold 1/2 
rounds (10 range, D 3-18), SZ L, IN 
Average; IL 40%, TT C; XP 205 + 5/hp 
The toads lair near the other ice creatures 
of this Node. 



Vapor rat (2 lairs of 8 each): AL C(N), MV 
12"//6" (1", MC: E), HD 2, AC 6 (or spe 
cial), #AT 1, D 1-2, SA gaseous form at 
will, SD serious wound or kill creates 
stinking cloud effect on 1 creature in 5-8 
feet, SZ S, IN Low; IL 30%, TT special 
(q.v. MM2 page 105); XP 52 + 2/hp 
These pests lair near the giants and 
dragons, scavenging leftovers. 

Vortex (5): AL CN, MV 15 (MC:A), HD 
2 + 2, AC 0, #AT 1, D spin (cone 40'x 
10 , D 1-3 per round and 5% per round 
cumulative chance of death), SZ S-M, IN 
Non; XP 50 + 3/hp 

Due to their high Armor Class, these 
monsters can be very deadly. They are eas 
ily frightened, but will regroup and return 
repeatedly if hungry. 

Wind walkers (2): AL N, MV 15 730" 
(MC:A), HD 6 + 3, AC 7, #AT 1 area, D 
3-18, SD ethereal, spell immunities (q.v. 
MM1 page 101), SZ L, IN Very, MR Spe 
cial; IL 20%, TT C, R; XP 575 + 8/hp 
These potentially deadly monsters are 
inquisitive and often benign. They employ a 
whistling language, and can also read minds 
and respond by whatever means are availa 
ble. 

Earth Node 

DESCRIPTION 

The Earth Burrows are dark and slightly 
damp-atypical cave-dungeon setting. The 
temperature is a constant 45 degrees, with 
little or no air movement. The environmen 
tal damage comes from the ever-present 
heavy dust in the air, and from occasional 
rockslides, minor cave-ins, and so forth. 

Those arriving in the Burrows appear in 
the center cave, a large broad area 50 feet 
tall at its center tapering to only 10-20 feet at 
the side corridors. 

The corridors have no light, and the 
dusty air permits only half normal range of 
sight, whether normal or infravision. Slopes 
are few, and the stone is dug out, rather 
than worked. 

BRIEF AREA NOTES 

E 1 Central cave (arrival point) 

E 2 North corridor 
E 3 Burrow 


115 





E 4 Cave 

E5 Large cavern with long corridor. At 
the south end of the cavern is an 
eight-pointed symbol, gate to the Fire 
Node. 

E6 Cave 

E7 Junction and small cave 
E8 Grotto 
E 9 Cave 

E 10 Large south cavern 
Ell South grotto with divided approach, 
lair of chaggrin grues. In their trea 
sure is one of the power gems, the gar 
net, which will send anyone touching 
it to the Fire Node. 

E 12 South cave 

E 13 Junction and cavern 

E 14 Hidden cave 

E15 Huge southwest cavern 

E 16 Small cavern 

E 17 Corridor intersections 

E 18 Long cavern (lair) 

E 19 Long west cavern. At the south end is 
a square symbol, gate to the Water 
Node. 

E 20 Northwest cavern 
E 21 North grotto 
E 22 North cave 

E 23 North cavern. At the west end is a cir 
cle symbol, gate to the Air Node. 

E 24 Great north cavern (lair) 

RESIDENTS 

Basilisks (2), AL N. MV 6 ", HD 6 + 1, AC 4, 
#AT 1, D 1-10, SA petrification gaze (6" 
range), S2 M (7 ), IN Animal; 1L 40%, 
TT F; XP 1000 + 8/hp 
These creatures are 90% likely to have 2- 
5 human or humanoid statues in the area 
near their lair-but note that they are often 
encountered elsewhere. Their presence is 
well known to most other residents. 


Bowlers (12): AL N, MV 6"-15", HD 5/8 (hp 
2-5), AC 4, #AT 1, D 1 per hp, SA 50% 
unnoticed over 40' range, S2 S-M, IN 
Semi; 1L 35%, TT self (gem); XP 5 + 
1/hp 

This single colony survives by camou 
flage and cowardice, and should not prove 
dangerous unless cornered. Neither should 
they become overly friendly, whatever 
occurs. 

Chaggrin grues (5); AL NE, MV 12" (3"), 
HD 5 + 5, AC 4, #AT 2, D 3-6/3-6, SA 2 
paw hits = cling (D 7-12 per round), SD 
dispels all earth-based spells in 40', sha- 
pechange to large mole, hedgehog, man 
(with merge in soil for surprise on 1-5), 
S2 S, IN Low-Average; IL 20%, TT C, 
Qx5; XP425 + 6/hp 
If not surprised, the grues prepare by 
merging with the nearby earth for the sur 
prise benefits. 

Crysmals (3); AL N(E), MV 6", HD 6 + 6, 
AC -4 or 0, #AT 1, D 3-12 (2-8), SA 
shoot appendage 2" (D 9-16), SD AC 0 
vs. blunt metal, immune to fire, cold, 
poison, takes half damage from light 
ning, SZ S (3 12 to L (14 1 long, 2' 
wide), IN High-Exceptional; PSI 91-110, 
Modes BC/F; IL 0%, TT self (4-32 
gems); XP 825 + 10/hp 
These creatures are prey of the xorn and 
xaren, and avoid them at all costs. They 
seek a diet of quartz and other minerals, and 
will attack to gain them. 

Crystal oozes (2): AL N, MV 17/3", HD 4, 
AC 8, #AT 1, D 4-16 + paralysis, SA 
hit = save vs. poison or paralyzed, SD 
75% invisible in water, immune to acid, 
cold, heat, fire, 1 point per hit from 
. blows, SZ M-L, IN Animal; XP 225 + 
4/hp 


These will probably be found together, 
and in water. They have no lair. 

Dracolisk (1): AL CE, MV 9"/15" (MC:E), 
HD 7 + 3, AC 3, #AT 3, D 1-6/1-6/3-12, 
SA acid breath (range 3", D 4-24, save 
for half), gaze petrifies, SD 90% immune 
to reflected gaze, SZ L (15-20 ), IN Low- 
Average; IL 35%, TT C, 1; XP 2200 + 
12/hp 

As with the basilisks, this creature has 2-5 
statues in or near its lair. 

Dragons, Black (2): AL CE, MV 12"/24" 
(MC:E), HD 7 (hp 35 each), AC 3, #AT 
3, D1-4/1-4/3-18, SA breath stream acid 
60 x 5 , SZ L (30), IN Average; IL 
30%,TT Ft XP 1155 each 

This mated pair has recently produced 
two eggs. These should hatch in 71-79 days, 
but will probably not survive (a mere 15% 
chance) unless fed plenty of fresh meat- 
humans and humanoids being an excellent 
source. 

Elementals, Earth (6); AL N, MV 6", HD 8 

(x3), 12 (x2), 16 (xl), AC 2, #AT 1, D 4- 
32, SD + 2 weapon to hit, SZ L, IN Low; 
XP 825 + 10/hp, 2850 + 15/hp, 5250 + 
20/hp 

These should be encountered singly or in 
pairs. They have no lair. 

Calebs duhr (2): AL N, MV 6 ", HD 8 to 10, 
AC-2, #AT 2, D 2-16, 3-18, or 4-24 (x2), 
SA once per round as L20 M-U-move 
earth, stone shape, passwall, transmute 
rock to mud, wall of stone, animate 1-2 
boulders (range 6, AC 0, MV 3", HD 9, 
D 4-24), SD immune to lightning, nor 
mal fire, save at + 4 vs. magical fire, SZ 
L (8-12'), IN Very; IL 15%, TT Qx3, X; 
XP 2000 + 12/hp 

The somber rock-lords have great power 








and little patience, but are not innately hos 
tile to any but those who feed upon stone or 
gems. They are likely to aid or at least par 
ley with those bearing information about 
such vile creatures. 

Giants, stone (6): AL N, MV 12 ", HD 9 + 1- 
3, AC 0, #AT 1, D 3-18, SA throw rocks 
(range 30", D 3-30), SZ L (12'), IN Aver 
age; IL 30%, IT D; XP 1800 + 14/hp 
This large single family has an easily 
defensible lair, and probably several allies 
nearby. 

Gorgons (2): AL N, MV 12", HD 8, AC 2, 
#AT 1, D 2-12, SA 4x/day breath cone 
6" x 2 " (save or petrify), SZ L, IN Ani 
mal; XP 1750 + 10/hp 
These dangerous beasts are avoided by 
nearly everyone. Their location should be 
well-known and mentioned in even the most 
casual conversation. 

Khargra (4): AL N, MV 3" (15"), HD 6, AC 
#3, #AT 1, D 3-18, SA surprise 7 in 8 
(jump 10' from wall), SZ S (3 ), IN Low; 
XP 300 + 6/hp 

The school of these strange rock-fish 
wanders almost constantly. Note that they 
may damage metal weapons with their bites 
(as explained in the ADf^D(r) FIEND 
FOLIO(r) Tome, pages 56-57). 

Rock reptiles (two lairs of 2 each): AL N, MV 
6", HD 5 + 8, AC 3, #AT 1, D 9-12, SA 
surprise on 1-3, SD chameleon, SZ M-L (5- 
12), IN Animal; IL 30%, TT S (xl/4), T 
(xl/2) per lizard, and 25% J, K, L, M per 
lair; XP400 + 7/hpor600 + 9/hp 

Storoper (1); AL CE, MV 1", HD 6, AC 0, 
#AT 1, D 1-10, SA 6 strands (50' range), 
first 2 hits charm (no save, for 10 rounds) 
and all cause weakness (-50% Str in 1-3 
rounds, for 2-8 turns), SD immune to 
normal missile fire, SZ M (5 ), IN High; 
IL 90%, TT M, N, Qx2; XP 500 + 6/hp 
This creature is probably encountered 
near some major intersection, where it can 
hide and watch passers-by until finding one 
that appears digestible. It is hungry. 

Xaren (2): AL N, MV 9" (3 "), HD 5 + 5, AC 
1, #AT 4, D 1-3/1-3/1-3/4-16, SA sur 
prise on 1-5, can shift (AC 8) to merge/ 
move at 9" rate, SD immune to fire and 
cold, takes half damage from lightning, 
SZ S (4'), IN Average; XP IL 70%, TT 


s 


40% special (q.v. MM2 page 129), XP 55 
+ 8/hp 

Note that these creatures are Neutral and 
probably friendly towards others native to 
their own Plane. 

Xorn (2): AL N, MV 9", HD 7 + 7, AC -2, 
#AT 4, D l-3(x3)/6-24, SA surprise on 1- 
5, SD immune to fire and cold, takes half 
damage from lightning; SZ M (5 ), IN 
Average; 1L40%, TT O, P, Qx5, X, Y; XP 
1275 + 10/hp 

Note that these creatures are Neutral and 
probably friendly towards others native to 
their own Plane. 

Fire Node 

DESCRIPTION 

The rooms and corridors of the dreaded Fire 
Pits are humid and hot-so hot that the subse 
quent environmental damage is inflicted over 
periods of exposure. The areas are lit, either 
dimly or brightly, by the occasional pits of 
burning embers and leaping flames, as noted 
on the map. 

Those arriving here appear in the central 
room, faced with a choice of eight doors. 
They, and all other portals in the Node, are 
large stone constructions with brass fittings. 
They stick frequently (-1 penalty to all open 
doors' roils), but are edged by ample cracks 
which allow fire creatures and others of 
mutable form to seep through them even 
when closed. 

The rooms and corridors, hewn from the 
surrounding rock, are well-made, perhaps by 
earth elementals or magic. Many surfaces are 
scorched and scratched, but few are chipped. 
Bits and scraps are rare, only found in small 
piles and singed on the upper side. 

BRIEF AREA NOTES 

Fl Center room (arrival point), with 
eight doors 

F2 North hall, with four fire pits (lair) 
F3 Octagonal room. At the north end is 
a circle symbol, gate to the Air Node. 
F4 Northeast rectangle room with side 
corridor (lair) 

F5 Dead-end room 
F 6 Passage and rectangular room 
F7 Northeast fire pits (3 pits, lair) 

F8 Square room 

F9 Great Hall with four square fire pits, 
lair of harginn grues. in their treasure 



is a power gem, the smoky quartz, 
which sends anyone touching it to the 
Air Node. 

F 10 Square room 
F1 1 Rectangular room 
F 12 Cubicle (lair) 

F 13 Side room 

F 14 Square room with door (lair) 

F 15 East rhomb 

F 16 Central room (lair) with doors and 
side corridors 
F 17 Side room with door 
F 18 Southeast fire pits (lair) 

F 19 Triangular room. At the north end is a 
triangle symbol, gate to the Earth 
Node. 

F20 Southwest fire pit room, with 2 rec 
tangular pits (lair) 

F 21 Side room with door 
F22 West rhomb 
F 23 Side room with door 
F24 Large room 
F 25 Cubicle (lair) 

F 26 Large room 
F 27 Side room with door 
F 28 Side room with door 
F 29 Southwest circle room 
F 30 Hall with 3 fire pits. At the west end 
of the hall is a square symbol, gate to 
the Water Node. 

F 31 Northwest circle room 
F 32 Side room with door 
F 33 Large hall 
F 34 Large corridor 
F 35 Oval room (lair) 

F 36 Northwest rectangle room with side 
corridor (lair) 

RESIDENTS 

Fire Bats (2 lairs of 12 each): AL NE, MV 
6'/20" (MOB), HD 2, AC 8, #AT 1, D 
2-8, SA hit attaches, SZ S, IN Semi; IL 
50%, TT I; XP 28 + 2/hp 
These pests may haunt and track the 
party for great lengths of time, avoiding 
outright attack until their prey is distracted 
by larger opponents. 

Bodak (1): AL CE, MV 6", HD 9 + 9, AC 5, 
#AT 1, D by weapon, SA gaze death ray 
(range 30), SD + 1 weapon to hit, 
immune to charm, hold, sleep, slow, poi 
son, SZ M, IN Low; XP 1950 + 14/hp 
This horror, a sometime ally of Darley the 
alu-demon (see wandering humans), is all 
that remains of a once powerful magic-user 
who allied with the demonic uprising 


117 




against luz. Though now of Low intelli 
gence, he is exceedingly cunning, and will 
hide, track, and use hit-and-run attacks on a 
preoccupied party if at all possible. 

Dragons, Red (2): AL CE, MV 9"/24" 
(MC:E), HD 10 (hp 60), 11 (hp 66), AC - 
1, #AT 3, D 1-8/1-8/3-30, SA breath fire 
cone 90 x 40', spells, SD spells, SZ L 
(48 ), IN Exceptional; 1L 60%, TT H, S, 
T; XP 5640, 8006 

This former mated pair has split up, due 
to marital arguments about treasure. They 
will be encountered singly, and may even 
avoid humans, knowing them to be danger 
ous. Each dragon can speak and use the fol 
lowing spells once per day: enlarge, shield, 
mirror image, web, dispel magic, slow. 

Efreeti (1): AL LE, MV 9724" (MC:A), HD 
10, AC 2, #AT 1, D 3-24, SA detect 
magic, enlarge, gaseous form, grant 3 
wishes, illusions, invisibility, polymorph 
self, produce flame, pyrotechnics, wall 
of fire (each 1/day), limited telepathy, 
SD immune to normal fire, -1 per die 
from magic fire, SZ L (12 ), IN Very; XP 
1950 + 14/hp 

This clever creature probably masquer 
ades as an elemental for a time if possible, 
and may even join and help a party in that 
guise until the PCs can be observed in com 
bat and their weaknesses found. 

Elemental, Fire (6); AL N, MV 12", HD 8 
(x3), 12 (x2), 16 (xl), AC 2, #AT 1, D 3- 
24, SD + 2 weapon to hit, SZ L, IN Low; 
XP 825 + 10/hp, 2850 + 15/hp, 5250 + 
20/hp 

These should be encountered singly or in 
pairs. They have no lair. 

Fire snakes (5); AL N, MV 4 ", HD 2, AC 6, 
#AT 1, D 1-4 + paralysis (2-8 turns), SA 
surprise 60%, SZ S (3), IN Semi; IL 
100%, TT Q; XP 73 + 2/hp 
These small pests are likely to be 
found lairing anywhere, possibly with or 
near other fire creatures. 

Firetoads (5); AL CN, MV 6", HD 4 + 1, AC 
10, #AT 1, D = hp (fireball), SZ S (4 1 ), 
IN Low; IL 20%, TT C; XP 165 + 5/hp 

The toads live scattered, foraging for 
small food sources. One or two will be 
encountered at any one time. 

Giants, fire (6): AL LE, MV 12 ", HD 11 + 2- 


5, AC 3, #AT 1, D 5-30, SA throw rocks 
(range 20", D 2-20), SD immune to all 
fire, SZ L (12), IN Average-Low; IL 
35%, TT E; XP 2700 + 16/hp 
This group may be in one or two lairs, 
probably sharing with some non-Chaotic 
ally. 

Harginn grues (8): AL NE, MV 15", HD 
4 + 4, AC 3, #AT 1, D 5-8, SA dispels fire 
spells within 20', shapechange (bonfire, 
8' column, humanoid), SD +1 weapon 
to hit, blink at will, SZ M, IN Average- 
High; IL 15%, TT Ixl/2; XP 245 + 5/hp 
From 1-3 of these will probably observe 
the party before being detected, as they are 
fond of hiding in pillar-of-flame form in and 
near various fire pits. If thus forewarned, 
the harginn can be formidable enemies. 

Salamanders (3); AL CE, MV 9", HD 7 + 7, 
AC 5/3, #AT 2, D By weapon/1-6, SA 
hot attacks (each adds D 1-6), SD +1 
weep, charm, hold, SZ M, IN High; IL 
75%, TT F; XP 825 + 10/hp 
Plagued by recent attacks by humans and 
giants, these creatures are 80% likely to flee 
if damaged, and will always negotiate if cor 
nered. 

Water Node 

DESCRIPTION 

The Water Maze is a great indoor ocean, a 
magical place suitable to both salt and fresh 
water beings. The ceiling of the great cavern 
casts a soft moonlight-bright glow. From 
the central pool, one might imagine the 
place to be a tropical atoll; but danger lurks 
throughout. 

The air is changeable, once a lilting warm 
breeze and then suddenly a chilling draft. 
Swirling eddies in both the water and the air 
produce sudden changes in waves at any 
time. Mists rise from the water, adding an 
air of mystery and suspense to the visually 
peaceful setting. But it is these oddly tinted 
mists that poison the very air, causing the 
given environmental damage to the unpro 
tected. 

The depth of the water varies widely but 
averages about 50 feet. The dozens of 
craggy islets reach 10 to 80 feet from the sur 
face, stretching towards the cavern roof far 
overhead (100-150 feet up) like pointing 
skeletal fingers. Icebergs dot the coldest part 


of the water, mostly to the northeast corner 
of the map. 

Newcomers to the Node land asplash in 
the central pool area, which is only 10 feet 
deep and protected from most of the sea 
dwellers by a coral reef. Some few small 
scavengers might be lurking therein, but 
they will probably avoid a group of nervous 
humans. 

BRIEF AREA NOTES 

W 1 Center pond (arrival point). A coral 
ridge surrounds this area, fencing a 
pool about 75' by 450' in size. 
Within the area are several rock and 
coral outcroppings, jutting 10-30 feet 
above the surface of the water. 

W 2 North sea 

W 3 Shelf, rising from the water to 10' 
above it at the northern edge. 

W 4 Shelf-grotto (lair). This appears as if a 
water-filled cave, but its floor rises to 
above water level past the entrance. 
Around the corner to the northwest is 
a circle symbol, gate to the Air Node. 
W 5 Northwest sea 
W 6 Shelf, 5' above water level (lair) 

W 7 Shelf, just under water level, encir 
cled by stone on the south and west 
sides (lair) 

W 8 West sea, north branch 
W 9 Lagoon with shelf to the south. Near 
the south end of the shelf is an eight- 
pointed symbol, gate to the Fire 
Node. 

W 10 Shelf, just under water level, encir 
cled by stone on the west and north 
sides 

W 11 West sea, south branch 
W 12 Southeast sea 
W 13 Hidden grotto 

W 14 Hidden shelf. The entrances to this 
area are underwater, but the shelf 
rises sharply reaching 10' above 
water level at the northernmost 
grotto. Therein is a triangle symbol, 
gate to the Earth Node. 

W 15 Channel 

W 16 Southwest cave, with submerged 
entrance (accessible only by a brief 
underwater swim; lair) 

W 17 Southwest sea 

W 18 Submerged shelf, about 10' below 
water level. Two outcroppings jut 
above water, to 20-30' height. 

W 19 West sea 



W 20 Shelf, rising to 5 1 above water level 
W 21 Hidden grotto, lair of varrdig grues. 
In their treasure is a power gem, the 
carnelian, which will send anyone 
touching it to the Earth Node. 

W 22 Northwest sea 

W 23 Shelf, 10 feet above water level (lair) 
W 24 Submerged shelf, 3 feet below water 
level, with two entrances and a stone 
outcropping blocking the southeast 
side (lair) 

RESIDENTS 

Dragon Turtles (2): AL N, MV 3*7/9", HD 
12 to 14, AC 0, #AT 3, D 2-12/2-12/4- 
32, SA breath steam cloud 60' x 40' x 
40', SZ L, IN Very; IL 5%, TT B, R, S, T, 
V; XP 7300 + 18/hp 

These powerful monsters are encountered 
singly. They look upon all other creatures as 
minor nuisances, and are quite accustomed 
to having their own way about everything, 
considering the entire node to be their pri 
vate pool. They are very susceptible to flat 
tery and bribes, and expect apologies for 
intrusions. 

Elementals, Water (6); AL N, MV 6"//18", 
HD 8 (x3), 12 (x2), 16 (xl), AC 2, #AT 1, 
#AT 1, D 5-30, SD + 2 weapon to hit, SZ 
L, IN Low; XP 825 + 10/hp, 2850 + 15/ 
hp, 5250 + 20/hp 

These should be encountered singly or in 
pairs. They have no lair. 

Eyes, floating (10): AL N, MV 0//30", HD 
1/2, AC 9, #AT 1 gaze, D 0 + paralysis, 
SZ S (T), IN Non; XP 30 + 1/hp 
These dangerous pests are always accom 
panied by other water-dwelling creatures. 

Giant, frost (6): AL CE, MV 12", HD 10 + 
1-4, AC 4, #AT 1, D 4-24, SA throw 
rocks (range 20 ", D 2-20), SD immune to 
cold, SZ L (15), IN Average-Low; IL 
30%, TT E; XP 2250 + 14/hp 
The family of giants keeps the ice lizards 
(below) as pets. Their grotto lair is easily 
defended with an ample supply of boulders. 
They enjoy long swims, and may thus be 
encountered in the water (but if so, always 
in pairs or more). 

Ice lizards (2): AL CE, MV 9715" (MC:C 
or E), HD 3 + 3, AC 1, #AT 3, D 1-6/1- 
3x2, SA cast sleep and fear, polymorph 
self into white dragon (each 2x/day), 


breath frost cone (3x/day, D 2-12), SZ S 
(3 ), IN Low, MR80; IL 30%, TT G; XP 
255 + 4/hp 

These playful beasts are pets of the frost 
giants (above). 

Ixitxachitl (40): AL CE, MV 0//12", HD 
1 +1, AC 6, #AT 1, D 3-12, SZ M, IN 
Average-High; IL 60%, TT P, R, S; XP 28 
+ 2/hp; q.v. MM1 page 55 for leaders, 
clerics, vampires, etc. 

This isolated group dwells near the bot 
tom of one of the deepest seas, avoiding 
most other creatures. The have decided that 
survival hinges on avoiding conflict, and 
are thus surprisingly placid-though they 
will attack furiously and in force if seriously 
threatened. 

Koalinth (40): AL LE, MV 6"//9", HD 
1 + 1, AC 5, #AT 1, D 1-8 or weapon, SZ 
M (6 1 + ), IN Average; IL 25%, TT J, M, 
D, Qx5; XP 20 + 2/hp 
The aquatic hobgoblins dwell near the 
ixitxachitl, in hopes of a future alliance 
(mostly for their curing abilities). They fear 
and hate the merrow, and might ally with a 
party if such would result in the merrows' 
defeat. 

Kopoacinth (10): AL CE, MV 97/15", HD 
4 + 4, AC 5, #AT 4, D 1-3/1-3/1-6/1-4, 
SD + 1 weapon to hit, SZ M, IN Low; IL 
20%, TTMxlO, C; XP 165 + 5/hp 
These water-gargoyles are marauding 
scavengers, likely to attack any new crea 
tures just as a pastime. They are slow to 
unite in defense if threatened. 

Lacedons (14): AL CE, MV 9"//9", HD 2, 
AC 6, #AT 3, D 1-3/1-3/1-6 + paralysis 
(elves immune), SD immune to sleep, 
charm, SZ M, IN Low; IL 20%, TT B; XP 
65 + 2/hp 

Marine ghouls can be found nearly any 
where, especially near other lairs where a 
few scraps might be stolen. 

Merrow (12): AL CE, MV 67/12", HD 
4 + 4, AC 4, #AT3 or 1, D1-6/1-6/2-8 or 
weapon (spear, D 1-6), SA surprise on 1- 
4 from cover, SD 10-80% invisible in ter 
rain, SZ L (9'), IN Low-Average; IL 
20%, TT A; XP 130 + 5/hp; q.v. MM1 
page 96 for leaders, shamans 
This tribe of aquatic ogres bully the 
koalinth and frequent their area, taking the 
best pieces of kills and often picking fights. 


Sea hags (2): AL CE, MV 15'/12', HD 3, 
AC 7, #AT 1, D 1-4, SA 3x/day death 
gaze 3", sight = save vs. spellsor lose 1/2 
STR for 1-6 turns, SZ M, IN Average, 
MR 50%; IL 10%, TT C, Y; XP 600 + 3/ 
hp 

This pair of old hags dwells in some 
secluded part of the Node. They are bitter 
and vengeful, having been tricked into com 
ing here with promises of 'the easy life'. 
They believe themselves near to completing 
a potion that will enable them to escape- 
but, of course, are wrong. When it fails, 
they will try to sell samples to others as 
bona fide items.... 

Varrdig grues (5); AL NE, MV 6"//18", HD 
6 + 6, AC 5, #AT 2 (1), D 1-4/1-4 (4-16), 
SA water Jet to 6' (1/6 chance for blind 
1-4 rounds), SD dispels all water &. ice 
spells in 30', SZ M, IN Semi-Average; IL 
20%, TT Fxl/2; XP 650 + 8/hp 
These disgusting creatures inflict little ini 
tial damage but are quite durable and can 
pose severe threats when attacking helpless 
and blinded opponents. They will stay in 
water for the near-invisibility this affords, 
and for the greater movement rate. 

Vodyanoi (2): AL CE, MV 6"/6 ", HD 8, AC 
2, #AT 3, D 1-10 + 2x2/1-10, SZ L (8'), 
IN Average; IL 30%, TT G: XP 650 + 10 
These slow relatives of umber hulks are 
hungry, as most potential prey avoids them. 
They wander in search of food most of the 
time, and will attack a party on sight. They 
are currently trying to figure out how to 
take control of the koalinth and merrow. 

Water weirds (2): AL CE, MV 0//12", HD 
3 + 3, AC 4, #AT 1, D drowning (save vs. 
paralysis or be dragged under), SA 
attack as 6 HD, control water elemental 
50%, SD edged weapon inflicts 1 point 
damage, reforms 2 rounds after 'death', 
slowed by cold, takes half damage from 
fire, SZ L (10 + ), IN Very; IL 50%, TT 
I, O, P, Y; XP 370 + 4/hp 
It is 75% likely that one of the weirds has 
gotten control of one of the elementals. If 
so, the other weird will be lurking nearby. 
The elementals will be aware of the situa 
tion, nearly powerless and eager to find 
allies who can help. 



Appendix A: 


Appendices 

STANDARD DIVINE ABILITIES feeblemind, cure insanity, detect charm, 


Deities & 
Demigods 

Before the start of this scenario, you or the 
players should determine the characters' dei 
ties. A list of the greater and lesser gods of the 
WORLD OF GREYHAWK(tm) Fantasy Game 


The following spell-like powers are com 
mon to all deities in this setting. Each is usa 
ble at will, up to once per round, and is 
activated by brief concentration alone. 

Astral travel, comprehend languages, 
continual darkness, continual light, cure 
blindness, cure deafness, cure disease, cure 


detect evil, detect good, detect illusions, 
detect invisibility, detect lie, detect magic, 
detect traps, ethereal travel, geas, infravis 
ion, know alignment, levitate, mirror 
image, polymorph self, read languages, 
read magic, teleport (no error), tongues, 
and ultravision. 


Setting, with active demigods, is given hereaf 
ter. St. Cuthbert and luz, both germane to this 
campaign, are then specifically detailed. They, 
along with other deities commonly involved 
with adventurers are likewise found in the 
WORLD OF GREYHAWK Game Setting. 

There is ample reason to allow players to 
carefully peruse this list of deities, and the gen 
eral descriptive notes given in the WORLD OF 
GREYHAWK(tm) Setting Catalogue. As inhabit 
ants of the Flanaess, the characters would cer 
tainly be aware of this information. From the 
list they should choose deities appropriate to 
their characters' alignments and places of ori 
gin. 

Remind your players that the local folk tend 
towards the Druidical faith (Ehlonna, Obad- 
hai, and most of all Beory), or follow St. 
Cuthbert, or serve some deity of Evil (in the 
case of unsavory elements). 

Because of the plots of luz and various 
demons and evil elemental types, St. Cuthbert 
has become actively aware of events, and has 
indirect assistance from Beory (who resists ele 
mental destruction). The enmity between luz 
and St. Cuthbert may result in direct confron 
tation! 

In the following list, the deity's name is 
followed by the racial origin, using simple 
abbreviations: 

C Common in most areas 

O Oeridian 

S Suloise 

F Flan 

B Baklunish 

U Unknown or indeterminate origin 

Note that deities can be of a certain racial 

origin and common in general at the same 
time. 

The major attributes are given in column 
three, followed by alignment and sex. With 
respect to alignment, the standard capital 
letters are given, possibly with a parentheti 
cal after-note. 


Greater Gods 




Beory 

FC 

Oerth Mother, nature, rain 

N(G) 

f 

Boccob 

C 

Magic, arcane knowledge 

N 

m 

Incabulos 

C 

Evil, plagues, nightmares 

NE 

m 

Istis 

B 

Fate, destiny 

N 

f 

Kord 

S 

Athletics, sports, brawling 

CG 

m 

Lender 

S 

Time, tedium 

LN 

m 

Nerull 

FC 

Death, darkness, underworld 

NE 

m 

Pelor 

FC 

Sun, strength, light, healing 

NG 

m 

Procan 

OC 

Oceans, seas, salt 

N(C) 

m 

Rao 

FC 

Peace, reason, serenity 

LG 

m 

Tharizdun 

U 

Eternal dark, decay, malign knowledge 

E 

m 

Ulaa 

uc 

Hills, mountains, gemstones 

LG 

f 

Wee Jas 

s 

Magic, death 

LN 

f 

Zilchus 

OC 

Power, prestige, influence, 
money, business 

LN 

m 

Demigods 

luz 

FC 

Oppression, deceit, pain 

CE(N) 

m 

Rudd 

OC 

Chance, good luck, skill 

CN(G) 

f 

Wastri 

u 

Bigotry, amphibians 

LN(E) 

m 

Zagyg 

c 

Humor, occult studies, eccentricity 

CN(G) 

m 

Zuoken 

BC 

Physical and mental mastery 

N 

m 

Lesser Gods 

Allitur 

FC 

Ethics, propriety 

LG(N) 

m 

Atroa 

OC 

Spring, east wind 

NG 

f 

Beltar 

S 

Malice, pits, deep caves 

CE(N) 

f 

Berei 

FC 

Home, family, agriculture 

NG 

f 

Bleredd 

C 

Metal, mines, smiths 

N(C) 

m 

Bralm 

SC 

Insects, industriousness 

N(L) 

f 

Celestian 

OC 

Stars, space, wanderers 

N(G) 

m 

Delleb 

o 

Reason, intellect 

LG 

m 

Ehlonna 

c 

Forests, flowers, meadows 

NG 

f 

Erythnul 

OC 

Hate, envy, malice, panic 

CE(N) 

m 

Fharlanghn 

OC 

Horizons, distance, travel 

N(G) 

m 

Fortubo 

s 

Stone, metals, mountains 

LG(N) 

m 

Geshtai 

BC 

Lakes, rivers, wells 

N 

f 

Heironeous 

OC 

Chivalry, honor, justice, valor 

LG 

m 

Hextor 

OC 

War, discord, massacre 

LE 

m 

Joramy 

c 

Fire, volcanoes, anger, quarrels 

N(G) 

f 

Kurell 

o 

Jealousy, revenge, thievery 

CN 

m 

Lirr 

c 

Prose, poetry, art 

CG 

f 

Llerg 

s 

Beasts, strength 

CN 

m 

Lydia 

sc 

Music, knowledge, daylight 

NG 

f 

Myhriss 

c 

Love, Beauty 

NG 

f 

Norebo 

s 

Luck, gambling, risk 

CN 

m 

Obad-Hai 

FC 

Nature, wildlands, freedom, hunting 

N 

m 

Olidammara 

c 

Music, revelry, roguery, wine 

N(C) 

m 

Phaulkon 

s 

Air, winds, clouds 

CG 

m 

Pholtus 

OC 

Light, resolution, law 

LG(N) 

m 

Phyton 

s 

Beauty, nature 

CG 

m 

Pyremius 

s 

Fire, poison, murder 

NE 

m 

Ralishaz 

c 

Chance, ill-luck, misfortune 

CN(E) 

m 

St. Cuthbert 

c 

Wisdom, dedication, zeal 

LG(N) 

m 

Sotillion 

OC 

Summer, south wind, ease, comfort 

CG(N) 

f 

Syrul 

s 

Deceit, false promises, lies 

NE(L) 

f 

Telchur 

OC 

Winter, north wind, cold 

CN 

m 

Trithereon 

c 

Individuality, liberty, retribution 

CG 

m 

Velnius 

o 

Sky, weather 

N(G) 

m 

Wenta 

OC 

Autumn, west wind, harvest 

CG 

f 

Xan Yae 

BC 

Twilight, shadows, stealth 

N 

f 

Xerbo 

s 

Sea, water travel 

N 

m 

Zodal 

FC 

Mercy, hope, benevolence 

NG 

m 


120 



IUZ (The Old) 

Demigod (Oppression, deceit, wickedness, 
pain) 

ARMOR CLASS: -4 (-8 with cape) 

MOVE: 18" 

HIT POINTS: 165 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 or 2 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type 
or 2-5/2- 5 ( + 9 strength bonus) 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: See below 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: + 1 or better 
weapon to hit 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 45% 

(65% with cape) 

SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Evil 
WORSHIPPERS ALIGNMENT: Evil (any) 
SYMBOL: Grinning human skull 
PLANE: Prime Material (Oerth) 
CLERIC/DRUID: 16th level cleric 
FIGHTER: Nil 

MAGIC-USER/ILLUSIONIST: Nil/Nil 
THIEF/ASSASSIN: 16th level assassin 
MONK/BARD: Nil/Nil 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Class III 
Attack/Defense Modes: All/all 

S 21 I 18 W 20 D 18 Co 18 Ch 18 (-4) 

Whether luz is a human who has become 
demon-like through the centuries, or 
whether he is a semi-demon, a cambion (as 
some suggest, a by-blow of Orcus), no mor 
tal knows. He is, however, the first known 
godling of Chaotic Evil, whose wickedness 
and treachery are infamous throughout the 
Flanaess. 

This cruel being can appear as either a 
massive (7 1 tall) fat man with demoniac fea 
tures, reddish skin, pointed ears, and long 
steely fingers, or as an old and wrinkled 
manikin scarcely 5 feet in height. Either 
might be luz' true form-or even both. 

luz rules a portion of Oerth, a horrid ter 
ritory which bears its master's name, from 
the cursed city of Molag. Few creatures 
beyond the boundaries of this domain will 
even speak his name, let alone adore him. 

In his demoniac form, luz prefers to wield 
a great two-handed sword + 3, though he 
can, of course, use other weapons. In any 
guise, luz can use his exceptionally long and 
sinewy digits to claw, strike, and strangle. If 
he strikes thus twice, the victim of his stran 
gling grasp will die in 2-5 rounds unless 
freed. In his manikin-like form, luz has the 


ability to generate a disgusting spittle which 
he can expectorate once per round. This 
substance ages the victim struck by 1-6 
years (no saving throw), and withers the 
area hit, numbing one member and making 
it useless for 2-5 rounds. His wrinkled vis 
age projects a negative Charisma (-4), which 
causes Horror to all those of 6 or fewer Hit 
Dice, for a -55% reaction penalty. 

luz is rumored to have a Soul Object 
secreted on the Abyssal Plane dominated by 
the demoness Zuggtmoy, with whom he is 
known to consort. He is thus free to roam 
outside his domain without fear of perma 
nent harm. He is also said to wear an old, 
short cape which boosts his Magic Resist 
ance by 20%, and serves as a cloak ofpro- 
tection + 4 as well. 

Great emnity exists between luz and St. 
Cuthbert. This is carried on by the servants 
of the two, as well. 

Clerics of luz dress in rusty black (their 
master's favorite color) or white streaked 
with rust-red bloodstains. At 3rd level each 
gains the ability to change self (as the illu 
sionist spell) once per day. Their ceremonies 
include the burning of foul-smelling sub 
stances, the beating of great drums and the 
clangor of bronze bells, and blood sacrifice 
whenever possible. Places of service to luz 
must be old, filthy, and dark. Altar services 
are typically of bone, and include many 
skulls. 

In addition to the standard divine abilities 
and the other abilities listed above, luz also 
has the following standard powers of any 
demigod. 

As often as desired: finger ofdeath, invis 
ibility, phantasmal force, protection from 
good 10' radius, remove fear, summon fol 
lowers (1-2 creatures of the same type and 
alignment, up to 20 Hit Dice total), wall of 
force. 

Three times per day: cure light wounds, 
raise dead. 

Twice per day: dispel good, dispel illu 
sion, dispel magic, true seeing. 

Once per day: anti-magic shell, command 
(2 round duration), gate, heal, unholy 
word, limited wish, symbol. 














ST. CUTHBERT (...of the Cudgel) 

Lesser god (Wisdom, common sense, truth, 
forthrightness, dedication) 

ARMOR CLASS: -3 (-8 if in his plate mail) 
MOVE: 21" 

HIT POINTS: 224 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 2 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: By weapon type 
( + 8 strength bonus) 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: See below 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: + 3 or better 
weapon to hit 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 80% 

SIZE: M 

ALIGNMENT: Lawful Good (Neutral) 
WORSHIPPERS ALIGNMENT: 

Lawful Good/Lawful Neutral 
SYMBOL: Wooden Billet, Starburst, 
Crumpled Hat 
PLANE: Arcadia 

CLERIC/DRUID: 22nd level cleric/ 

8th level druid 

FIGHTER: Nil 

MAGIC-USER/ILLUSIONIST: Nil/Nil 
THIEF/ASSASSIN: Nil/Nil 
MONK/BARD: 7th level monk 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Class VI 
Attack/Defense Modes: All/all 

S 20 I 10 W 23 D 19 Co 25 Ch 19 

St. Cuthbert appears as a stout red-faced 
man, with a drooping white moustache and 
flowing white hair. He wears a simple plate 
mail of + 5 enchantment. Atop his helmet is 
a crumpled hat, and a starburst of rubies set 
in platinum hangs on his chest. 

in his left hand he carries a billet of wood. 
This bronzewood cudgel is actually, in St. 
Cuthbert's grasp, a + 3 weapon equal to a 
morning star. Any human touched by the cud 
gel must make a saving throw vs. spells or be 
beguiled for 5-20 turns. In his right hand is the 
fabled Mace ofSt. Cuthbert, a mace ofdisrup- 
tion + 5 with other powers. If the "to hit" roll 
isanatural 20, the victim loses 1 point ofintel- 
ligence (no saving throw, no magic resist 
ance). The Mace of St. Cuthbert has the 
following additional powers: bless (by tapping 
touch), know alignment (once per day), 
tongues, exorcise (once per month), and 
remove curse (seven per week). 

St. Cuthbert hates Evil, but his major 
interest is in Law and Order, and the dual 
work of conversion and prevention from 


backsliding of "true believers." He seldom 
leaves his plane, unless some great duty 
brings him forth. When on the Prime Plane, 
he sometimes appears as a manure-covered 
yokel, or as a wanderer clad in brown and 
green robes, or as an elderly and slight tin 
ker. in these guises he tests the doctrine of 
his faithful, or seeks new converts. He can 
gate to or from Arcadia or the Prime Mate 
rial Plane at will. 

The three orders of the priesthood of St. 
Cuthbert are the Chapeaux, the Stars, and 
the Billets. The Chapeaux dress in varying 
garb, but all wear crumpled hats. They seek 
to convert people to the faith. At third level, 
each gains the ability to cast one shillelagh 
spell per day. 

The Stars wear dark green robes with a star- 
burst holy symbol of copper, gold, or plati 
num (depending on their status). They seek to 
retain doctrinal purity amongst the faithful. 
At fourth level, each Star cleric gains the abil 
ity to cast one ESP spell per day. 

The Billets are the most numerous of 
those in the orders, serving as ministers and 
protectors of the faithful. Billets dress in 
simple brown and russet garments, and use 
a holy symbol of an oaken or bronzewood 
billet. At second level, each gains the ability 
to cast one friends spell per day. 

While St. Cuthbert has many large places of 
worship, wayside shrines and small, rude 
chapels are the usual. His followers are found 
mainly in the central Flanaess, around Grey- 
hawk, the Wild Coast, Urnst, and Verbobonc. 
A great rivalry exists between those who fol 
low St. Cuthbert and the followers of Pholtus 
(of the Blinding Light). 

In addition to the standard divine abilities 
(given at the beginning of this Appendix) 
and the other abilities listed above, St. 
Cuthbert also has the following standard 
powers of any lesser god. 

As often as desired: control temperature 
20 radius, improved invisibility, improved 
phantasmal force, remove curse, remove 
fear, summon followers (1-3 creatures of the 
same type and alignment, 25 Hit Dice total). 

Four times per day: dispel evil, dispel illu 
sion, dispel magic. 

Three times per day: cure serious 
wounds, resurrection, true seeing. 

Twice per day: anti-magic shell, gate, 
heal, holy word, polymorph others, protec 
tion from evil 20' radius, symbol. 

Once per day: command (3 round dura 
tion), death spell, minor globe ofinvulnerabil- 
ity, quest, restoration, trap the soul, wish. 



122 







Appendix B: 
Monsters 

ZUGGTMOY (Demoness Lady of Fungi) 

FREQUENCY: Very rare 
NO. APPEARING: 1 (unique) 

ARMOR CLASS: 0 (body) or -2 (head) 
MOVE: 15" (6" on walls or ceilings) 
or 12" in human form 
H1TD1CE: 49(222hp) 

% IN LAIR: 40% 

TREASURE TYPE: H, S, T 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 2 + 2 or 2 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: 2-8 each (x4) 
or 2-12/2-12 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: See below 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: + 2 or better 
weapon to hit 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 85% 
INTELLIGENCE: Genius 
ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Evil 
SIZE: L (M in human form) 

PSIONIC ABILITY: 222 

Attack/Defense Modes: All/all 

LEVEL/XP VALUE: X/45,170 (and see 
below; x 10 if slain permanently) 

Zuggtmoy, Demoness Lady of Fungi, dread 
and fell ruler of the 222nd ghastly plane of 
the Abyss, aspired to establish her rule over 
a portion of the world. With the aid of luz, 
she formed the Temple of Elemental Evil and 
for a time wrought death, destruction, and 
great suffering. Then the forces of Good 
fought a campaign against her, and she was 
surprised and bound during the intaking of 
the Temple. The opposing clerics and magic- 
users confined her somewhere beneath the 
ground, reputedly with the aid of one or 
more deities. 

Though Zuggtmoy has a relatively light 
armor class for a major demon, she has a 
great number of hit points. Further, she 
regenerates 1 hit point per round, or double 
that if standing upon or in loose soil. 

in her natural form, Zuggtmoy is able to 
move rapidly despite her bulk, and can 
walk on walls or even inverted (such as on 
ceilings), though such modes reduce the 
maximum rate. She can use her 4 pseudo 
pods to strike opponents, each inflicting 2-8 
points of damage. Up to two hits can be 
made on a single opponent; if both hit, an 
additional 5-8 points of crushing damage 
also applies (a total damage of 9-24 points 




for the two blows). Zuggtmoy may choose 
to trample, instead of striking with blows. 
Trampling, effective only against prone or 
small (under 4 ) creatures, consists of two 
attacks against one opponent, each inflict 
ing 2-12 points of damage; if both hit, the 
victim is also stunned for 1-4 rounds. 

In her human form, appearing as an old 
and feeble crone, Zuggtmoy can only attack 
with some weapon or spell-like power (at 
22nd level of magic use). 

Zuggtmoy has the following spell-like 
powers, each usable at will: 

anti-plant shell 
astral spell 
charm plants 
continual darkness 
detect good 
detect magic 
entangle 
fear 15' radius 
improved invisibility 
hold plant 
levitate 
locate plants 
plant door 
plant growth 
pass plant 

pollute food &. drink 
programmed illusion 
read languages 
read magic 
silence 15' radius 
snare 

speak with plants 
telekinese (10,000 gp weight) 
tongues 

transport via plants 
trip 

She can become ethereal twice per day, and 
can use each of the following once per day: 
limited wish, gate, summon fungi. Her gate 
(70% successful) may be attempted up to 
once per round, but will succeed only once 
daily; it summons (01-50) 1-4 Type 1 
demons, (51-75) 1-3 Type 11 demons, (76-90) 
1-2 Type III demons, 'or (91-00) 1 babau 
demon. (The first three are described in the 
ADND(r) MONSTER MANUAL, pages 16- 
18. See MONSTER MANUAL II, page 36, 
for the babau.) 

When Zuggtmoy uses her summon fungi 
ability, refer to that table and roll ld6 to find 
the monsters responding. The monsters 
arrive within 1 round, oozing forth from her 
bloated body. All fungi are described below, 


in addition to the standard listings. When 
ever Zuggtmoy is in her lair, she is accompa 
nied by all of the creatures on the 
summoning table (in the maximum numbers 
given), as well as poisonous toadstools, 
molds (brown, russet, and yellow), and a 
host of other dangerous and disgusting 
growths. 

As she is currently bound in a portion of 
the dungeons of her own creation, the XP 
award for Zuggtmoy's conquerors is much 
less than normal: 28,770. (See area 353 for 
details on her limits, and for revised XP val 
ues if she is partially freed.) 

Summon Fungi Table 

Die Roll Fungi Summoned 

1 1-2 ascomids 

2 5-8 phycomids 

3 4-6 zygoms 

4 3-6 ustiluagors 

5 2-4 basidironds 

6 5-8 violet fungi 

Description: Zuggtmoy's natural form is 
bulbous. She resembles a puffball mush 
room with a toadstool growing on top. Four 
elephantine legs with suckered bottoms sup 
port the spherical body. The globular torso 
is flattened at the bottom and bulges at its 
equator, so that the legs reach to a bit over 
3-foot height, the body another 30 inches 
higher, but with a horizontal diameter of 
nearly five feet. The mushroom-stem neck is 
two feet long, capped by a head which 
appears to have squashed humanoid fea 
tures. The eyes are round, black, and blank 
-looking. 

Zuggtmoy can extrude a pair of three-foot 
long pseudopodial arms from either hemi 
sphere of her body, at will. These growths can 
extend opposing digits if desired. 

The body coloration is variable, as 
Zuggtmoy is able to change it to suit her sur 
roundings, though she is typically of a pale 
grayish-white or brownish-white color, the 
head slightly darker. Color can be moss 
green, dull brown, red-orange, mottled pur 
ple, etc., ranging the whole spectrum of col 
ors possible to fungi growths. Body texture 
and odor are likewise obviously fungoid, in 
all, Zuggtmoy is revolting to behold and 
disgusting to smell; blotchy patches of 
mold, smut, and blight cover her body. Her 
strength is great (19), and her gross weight is 
quite high, despite her fungoid nature- 
over 2,000 pounds. 


123 






ZUGGTMOY'S BELOVED 

Here are summarized the details of the vari 
ous molds and growths typically found with 
Zuggtmoy. Most can be easily added to 
adventures, but do not supplement Zuggt- 
moy's current companions (see Dungeon 
Level Three) until or unless she gains more 
freedom, especially the ability to summon 
fungi. 

Ascomid (MM2 page 10): AC 3, MV 12", 
HD 6 + 6, #AT 1, D infection, SA chok 
ing spore Jet, SD immune to blunt weap 
ons, 1 point from edged weapon, 1/2 
normal damage from spells ( + 4 saving 
throw bonus), AL N(E), SZ L (5-10 
diameter), L/XP VII/775 + 8/hp; (takes 
double damage from piercing weapons, 
normal damage from cold) 

Basidirond (MM2 page 15): AC 4, MV 6", 
HD 5 + 5, #AT 1, D 2-8 + smothering 
(save vs. poison or die in 2-5 rounds), 
SA hallucinatory spores to 20-35" 
radius, SD cold attack only slows, AL 
N(E), SZ M (6-7 1 tall), L/XP VI/475 + 6/ 
hp 

Fungi, Violet (MM1 page 42): AC 7, MV 1", 
HD 3, #AT 1-4, D rot, AL N, SZ S-M, 
L/XP III/135 +4/hp 

Mold, Brown (MM1 page 71): AC 9, MV 0", 
SA cold damage 4-32 to all within 5 feet, 
SD fire enlarges, affected only by magical 
cold, AL N, SZ S-L 

Mold, Russet (MM2 pages 91-2): AC 9, MV 
O', HD 12-16 hp per patch, SA spore cloud 
3' radius = Dmg 5-20 and save vs. poison 
or die in 2-5 turns, SD immune to fire, 
cold, blows, most spells, AL N, SZ S-L 

Mold, Yellow (MM1 page 71): AC 9, MV 0", 
HD 2 per patch, #AT 1, D 1-8, SA 10 cube 
cloud, save vs. poison or die, SD affected 
only by fire or light, AL N, SZ S-L 

Ochre Jelly (MM I page 75): AC 8, MV 3", 
HD 6, #AT 1, D 3-12, SD lightning 
divides, AL N, SZ M, L/XP VI/150 + 
6/hp 

Ooze, Gray (MM1 page 49): AC 8, MV 1", 
HD 3 + 3, #AT 1, D 2-16, SA corrodes 
(same rate as pudding), SD immune to 
spells, heat, cold, AL N, SZ M-L, Psi 21- 
121 (rare), L/XP IV/200 + 5/hp 


Phycomid (MM2 page 101): AC 5, MV 3", 
HD 4, #AT 2, D 3-6/3-6, SA infection, 
SD half damage from fire ( + 4 saving 
throw bonus), AL N(E), SZ S (2' diame 
ter), L/XP: V/280 + 5/hp 

Pudding, Black (MM1 page 10): AC 6, MV 
6", HD 10, #AT 1, D 3-24, SA dissolves 
wood 1C metal, SD immune to all but fire, 
divided by blows, AL N, SZ S-L, L/XP X/ 
1350 +14/hp 

Pudding, Brown (MM2 page 102): AC 5, 
MV 6", HD 11, #AT 1, D 5-20, SA dis 
solves leather and wood in 1 round, 
SD immune to acid, cold, poison, 
divided by blows, AL N, SZ S-L, L/XP 
Vlll/1600 +16/hp 

Pudding, Dun (MM2 page 102): AC 7, MV 
12", HD 8 + 1, #AT 1, D 4-24, SA dissolves 
leather in 1 round, metal at 1/2 rate black 
pudding, SD immune to acid, cold, poi 
son, divided by blows, AL N, SZ S-L, L/ 
XP VIII/1000 +12/hp 

Pudding, White (MM2 page 102): AC 8, 
MV 9", HD 9, #AT 1, D 7-28, SA dis 
solve flesh only, SD immmune to acid, 
cold, poison, divided by blows, AL N, 
SZS-L, L/XP VIII/1200 + 12/hp 

Slime, Green (MM1 page 49): AC 9, MV 0", 
HD 2, #AT 1 drip, D turn to slime in 1-4 
rounds, SA corrodes metals, AL N, SZ 
S, L/XP 11/110 + 2/hp 

Slime, Olive (MM2 page 110): AC 9, MV 0", 
HD 2 + 2, #AT 1 drip, D turn to slime crea 
ture in 7-12 days, SD harmed only by acid, 
cold, fire, or cure disease, AL N, SZ S, L/ 
XPV/330 +3/hp 

Ustilagor (MM2 pages 122-3): AC 5, MV 9", 
HD 3 + 3, #AT 1, D 2-5, SA save vs. poi 
son or take 2-5 caustic damage, telem- 
pathic projection, energy control, AL 
N(E), SZ S (12-18 inch diameter), PSI 155- 
180, D/F, L/XP III/135 + 4/hp 

Zygom (MM2 page 132): AC 8, MV 1", HD 3, 
#AT 1, D infection, SA sticky secretion, 
AL N(E), SZ S-L (by host), L/XP III/85 
+4/hp 


124 





JUGGERNAUT 

FREQUENCY: Rare 
NO. APPEARING: 1 
ARMOR CLASS: 2 
MOVE: 1" to 12" (see below) 

HIT DICE: 10 to 13 
% IN LAIR: 0% 

TREASURE TYPE: See below 
NO. OF ATTACKS: Up to 6 
DAMAGE PER ATTACK: 2-12 each 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Crush (D 10-100) 
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Immune to all fire 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Standard 
INTELLIGENCE: Animal to Average 
ALIGNMENT: N(E) 

SIZE: L (8-20' long) 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 

Attack/Defense Modes: Nil/nil 

LEVEL/XP VALUE: X/3,000 + 14/hp 

A juggernaut is a creature related to the 
mimic, appearing as a large stone object of 
some sort. The creatures form always has 
wheels, runners, or some other source of 
mobility. 

Just as the mimic can project a pseudo 
pod, so can its cousin produce several 
growths-including slim toothy heads, pin 
cers, rams, and so forth. It can make up to 
six attacks per round in this way, depending 
on the limits of its shape. 

The juggernaut can also change form to 
some extent, but more slowly than the 
mimic. Once pseudopods are cut off or re 
absorbed into the body mass, up to a month 
may be needed to re-grow them, again 
depending on their forms. Heads on pseudo 
pods may permit the juggernaut to make 
noises of many sorts, and some few can 
even speak (though poorly). 

A juggernaut with wheels or rollers can 
not turn sharply or reverse directions unless 
it first comes to a complete halt. For every 
ten feet it travels it can turn about three feet; 
it must travel 30 feet to make a 90 degree 
turn. It is also slow to start, in the first 
round of animation it can move but ten feet 
per round, gaining 1" additional movement 
each round thereafter until its maximum 12 " 
rate is achieved. (For example, in the ninth 
round of animation it moves at 9" rate.) 

This ungainly movement is, of course, 
balanced by an additional attack form. 
Such a juggernaut may attack by simply 
rolling over a victim, crushing everything in 
its path. A normal "to hit" roll is made (situ 


ation permitting), if the juggernaut-hits, all 
the victim s items must be checked vs. 
crushing blow. The victim takes considera 
ble damage, a maximum of 10-100 (lOdlO) 
points if the juggernaut is large and heavy. 






125 





Appendix C: 
Magic Items 

GARGOYLE CLOAK 

GP Sale Value: 6,000 XP Value: 1,000 

When donned, this garment polymorphs 
the user into a gargoyle, with effect as the 
polymorph selfspell. No command word is 
used. Items carried are absorbed within the 
gargoyle form, unusable. Immunities, fly 
ing ability, and all other gargoyle character 
istics are bestowed. Armor Class is likewise 
altered, but is modified by the user's true 
Dexterity, magical effects, and protective 
devices worn or carried (but excluding mod 
ifications from armor and shield). 

The cloak s effects may be produced up to 
a maximum of three times per day. The 
polymorph occurs within 1 segment after 
the cloak is donned, without the sparkling 
lights usually accompanying a polymorph. 
After the first full turn of use, there is a 10% 
chance per turn (cumulative) of the wearer 
being mentally changed into a gargoyle as 
well. If this occurs, the user either attacks or 
flies off (just as would a real gargoyle). Only 
a wish or death can then return the victim to 
normal form. 

The cloak is easily damaged by any edged 
weapon, fire, and other hazards. If the 
wearer takes 20 or more points of damage 
from such attacks, consider the cloak 
destroyed. The cloak may be repaired magi 
cally (via limited wish or similar enchant 
ment) but not by normal means. 

As a final note, other cloaks of poly 
morphing may be found. Each is designed to 
change the user into one specific creature. 
Each confers benefits and hazards in the 
manner given above-a full polymorph self 
(lacking only the spell's curative effects), 
with the given chance of permanent mental 
change as well. 

ICHOR OF INTOXICATION 

GP Sale Value: 900 XP Value: 500 

This substance is a colorless syrup found in 
half- ounce vials. It can be mixed with a liq 
uid, applied to food, or simply ingested 
straight. The ichor dries when exposed to 
air, hardening in 1 turn. 

When a vial of the fluid is consumed, the 
user becomes greatly intoxicated within 1 
round (see effects below). If more is then 
consumed, the user becomes comatose from 
the excess. A half-vial produces mild intoxi 



cation, but lesser doses have little or no 
effect. 

One vial of ichor can be used to treat one 
apple-sized foodstuff (about 10 square 
inches of area) or any beverage. 

Effects of intoxication are summarized 
below. Note that all modifiers are penalties 
except for those affecting NPC Bravery and 
Morale. Recovery from intoxication simply 
requires time, and (if a Comatose condition 
results) sleep. The times needed are 2-4 
hours for Mild, 4-6 hours for Great, and 7- 
10 hours for Comatose. 



Mild 

Great 

Strength 

0 

0 

Intelligence 

-3 

-6 

Wisdom 

-4 

-7 

Dexterity 

-2 


Constitution 

0 

0 

Charisma 

-1 

-4 

"To hit" rolls 

-1 

-5 

Saving throws 

+ 1 

+ 5 

Bravery* 

+ 2 

+ 4 

Morale* 

+ 10% 

+ 15% 


* NPCs only 

LEOMUND'S LABILE LOCKER 

GP Sale Value: 25,000 XP Value: 5,000 

This copper-bound box is two feet wide and 
tall, and three feet long. Invisible runes are 
scribed upon its front; these reveal four 
command words. The first shrinks the box 
to a twelfth of normal size, with all contents 
likewise becoming minute. The weight of 
the shrunken chest, empty or filled, is 30 
pounds. The second word causes the chest 
(if of normal size) to function as one upon 
which a Leomund's secret chest spell has 
been placed (but with no smaller replica 
necessary!). The third word causes the box 
to return to full size or normal place, as 
applicable. The fourth word causes growth 
to quadruple dimensions, with sides, top, 
and bottom of one foot thickness, huge cop 
per bands, and a weight of 1,200 pounds. 

POUCH OF HOLDING 

GP Sale Value: 4,000 
XP Value: 800 (per pouch) 

These apparently normal leather or cloth 
pouches are found in groups of 3-6 (ld4 + 2) 
attached to a belt. Each pouch can hold 100 
gp (or ten pounds weight) as if it were but 1 
gp (or a tenth of a pound). However, noth 
ing larger than 1x2x3 inches can fit into 
a pocket, and the maximum cubic volume 



capacity for a pocket is 3 x 6 x 12 inches. 
(Thus, vials of holy water would easily fit, 
but a dagger or wand would not, in most 
cases.) 

FRAGARACH 

GP Sale Value: 90,000 XP Value: 18,000 

(plus scabbard value: 35,000 gp) 

This hefty steel broadsword bears a mighty 
enchantment. It was originally fashioned 
for a demigod of elsewhen, and eventually 
passed into the WORLD OF 
GREYHAWK(tm) Setting. It served well for a 
short time, all too soon falling into the 
hands of the minions of Chaotic Evil. It has 
been in their grasp for a decade or more, 
resting in hiding in the Temple of Elemental 
Evil, guarded by the worst of elemental 
grues. Fragarach means "The Answerer." 

The sword is of Chaotic Good alignment. 
Any Lawful creature trying to grasp it takes 
1-6 points of damage and falls senseless for 
1-10 rounds. A Neutral creature holding it 
takes only 1-3 points and swoons for 1-4 
rounds. In evil hands, Fragarach has no "to 
hit" bonus whatsoever; in Chaotic Neutral 
hands, it will strike but one opponent per 
round. The sword functions perfectly only 
for a Chaotic Good user. In such hands, its 
+ 4 bonus always operates, and it will strike 

WAND OF A WONDER 

GP Sale Value: 10,000 XP Value: 6,000 

Quite similar to its cousin, the ever- popular 
wand ofwonder, this item produces strange 
and unpredictable results for users of any 
class or type. The exact effect produced in 
any single use is determined by a random 
IdlOO roll, with reference to the following 
chart. The wand uses 1 charge per function. 
It may not be recharged. Allow saving 
throws wherever applicable, vs. wands 
unless the effect suggests another category. 
The wand performs at 6th level of experi 
ence, as is normal for such devices, and all 
physical changes produced (growths, poly 
morphs, etc.) are dispellable at normal 
chances. 


126 




01-02 Target loses all hair, fur, or feathers. 

03-07 Pit 10' deep (any necessary width) opens 
under target's feet. 

08-09 Target gains + 1 bonus "to hit" for the next 3 
rounds. 

10-11 100 small bats appear, swarm around the 

wielder's head for one round, then flit away. 

12-13 Target grows wings, arms, or tentacles. 

14-15 Cage of heavy iron bars (10 x 10 x 10 ) 
surrounds the wielder. 

16-17 Each piece of headgear within 20 feet (includ 
ing helmets) changes to a skullcap topped by 
a bladed device, the blades turning in any 
breeze. 

18-22 Target's color turns to hot pink. 

23-25 All gold within 10 feet of the wielder turns to 
lead. 

26-29 Target is covered with a thick layer of honey. 

30-32 In each of the next 5 rounds, 2-8 sp shoot 

forth from each of the wielder's ears. 

33-34 Target is garbed in a beautiful, well-tailored, 
embroidered silk coat (2,000 gp value, but 
magical and dispellable). 

35-39 Target is polymorphed into a giant rabbit (as 
the polymorph other spell; check for mental 
change). 

40-41 Target grows a large moustache in 1 round 
(possibly with goatee). 

42-43 Thousands of horseflies fill the area within 30 
feet of the wielder, interfering with concen 
tration and preventing spell casting and com 
bat. They remain for 5-20 turns but will not 
leave the area except to follow honey. 

44-48 Target is affected by Otto's irresistible dance 
for 3 rounds (no saving throw). 

49-52 Stream of acid shoots out to 10 range. 

inflicting 3-24 points of damage (as if dragon 
breath; save for half damage). 

53-55 Band instruments appear between the 
wielder and the target. They play loudly and 
march back and forth for 3-6 rounds, as if 
used by invisible musicians, then vanish. 
Anyone trying to interfere takes 2-12 points 
of damage and is hurled back 10 feet. 

56-57 Tree grows under the wielder, lifting to the 
ceiling or 50' height, whichever is less. 

58-62 One hundred dead and putrid fish rain down 
within 30 1 of the wielder. 

63-68 Target glows for 5 rounds (as if double-inten 
sity faerie fire), but thereafter the wielder 
vanishes (invisible, not dispellable) for 2-5 
rounds. 

69-70 The sound of bells rings forth from the wand, 
drowning out all noise and speech for 2-5 
rounds. 

71-75 Dispel magic effect on everything within 20 
feet of the wand, as if an 11th level caster. 

76-77 Wielder is polymorphed into a mule-centaur. 

78-84 Monster summoning IV spell effect, as if cast 

by the wand wielder. 

85-86 Target gains 3-12 (3d4) hit points, which 
remain for 6 turns (not dispellable; damage 
taken is first removed from added hit points). 

87-90 Wielder floats 10 feet up (as if feather failed in 
reverse gravity), hovers for 3-6 rounds, then 
drops suddenly. 

91-95 Eight fiery spheres of different hues shoot 
forth at 1-segment intervals, striking the tar 
get and seemingly causing great amounts of 
damage (actually only 1 point from each}. 

96-99 All weapons held in hand within 30 feet turn 
into bunches of flowers. 

00 Death ray at target (6" maximum range). 


as many opponents unerringly as have 
struck at its possessor. Fragarach always 
hits all such targets, the + 4 pertaining to 
additional damage only. Note, however, 
that The Answerer always strikes last in a 
melee round. Against evil opponents, the 
bonus doubles (to + 8) whenever a natural 
20 is rolled for "to hit" determination. 

The sword has a hilt of silver and gold 
wire, most cunningly wrought. Its guard 
and pommel are set with perfect emeralds 
(corundum)-7gems, totalvalue65,000gp. 
Its scabbard is likewise trimmed with pre 
cious metal and decorated with many gems 
of green and golden hue, worth another 
35,000gp. 

OTHER SWORDS OF ANSWERING 

GP Sale Value: 50,000 XP Value: 10,000 

(plus scabbard: 16,000 gp) 

When Fragarach first came to this world, it 
received immediate attention and quick 
renown; so much so, in fact, that six other 
swords like it were forged and enchanted. 
These are lesser weapons, of course, and 
their alignments vary. Each has a + 2 bonus 
(and cannot hit opponents struck only by 
+ 3 or better weapons). On a natural "to 
hit" roll of 1, no bonus applies; on a natural 
20, like their predecessor, the bonus is dou 
bled (to + 4). These lesser swords are identi 
fied by the differing gems set in guard and 
pommel. They are reported to be amethyst, 
aquamarine, garnet, peridot, topaz, and 
tourmaline stones, with combined value of 
about 24,000 gp per weapon, 16,000 gp per 
scabbard. These weapons are named Rebut 
ter, Scather, Replier, Retorter, Squelcher, 
and Back-Talker, in honor of Fragarach. 

LENS OF TRANSFORMATION 

Artifact GP Sale Value: 22,500 

This device is a sheet of cloudy crystal, 7 
feet broad and tall and 3 inches thick. It was 
created by luz, who placed it in the dungeon 
for his own evil purposes. 

The crystal sheet appears cloudy from 
one side, but clear from the other. No detect 
spell works within 20 feet of it, except for 
detect magic, which reveals that a powerful 
dweomer is upon the crystal sheet, and (if 
the lens is activated) that a lesser magic 
affects the area within 20 feet of it. 

The lens is activated whenever any life 
force (living or undead) approaches within 3 
feet of the clear side. The cloudy side of the 
lens then begins to brighten, its radiance 


producing a continual light effect within one 
round. Viewed from the cloudy side, the 
users (those on the clear side) appear as the 
purest opposites of their actual forms. A 
paladin would appear demonic or diabolic; 
a Chaotic Evil monster might appear as a 
paladin, or as a deva, planetar, or solar. 
Additional visual effects (flames and 
smoke, sky and fluffy clouds, etc.) are auto 
matically produced as a background setting 
appropriate to the visual (false) form. Sub 
tle feelings (fear, peace, etc.) are likewise 
projected to the viewers of the illusion, 
allowing no saving throw (though innate 
total immunity to ESP negates the emo 
tional effects). The cloudy side of the lens 
quickly darkens when the user(s) back away 
from the clear side. 

The lens will function as often as desired, 
it is protected by a powerful and permanent 
force field, and is impervious to harm by 
anything less than a godling. Even passwall 
and glassee are useless against its mighty 
dweomer. Once mounted, as it is herein, it 
cannot be removed by a power lesser than 
luz', except for a wish-and even that may 
cause the lens to shatter in the attempt (a 
25% chance). A final dweomer lets luz 
know if the yens is destroyed, and who did 
it. 

THE ORB OF GOLDEN DEATH 

Artifact GP Sale Value: 75,000 

This item (a.k.a. Yellowskull, Goldenskull, 
or the Death Orb) is a powerful magic item 
created by Zuggtmoy and luz. Because of its 
nature and aura, no paladin will touch it 
willingly, nor will any Good cleric; they feel 
its immense innate Evil. 

The Death Orb is a gold sphere three 
inches in diameter, shaped to resemble a 
human skull sans lower jaw. Atop the 
crown is a raised diadem with depressions, 
the latter designed to accept four large 
gems, one representing each element. The 
Orb has only limited powers without these 
gems. Its possessor can, at will, detect lie, 
know alignment, and poison (as the reverse 
of a neutralize poison spell). 

The possessor learns directly from The 
Orb full details of usable powers, but no 
information about Charisma effects 
(explained below), potential powers (such 
as those gained by addition of gems), unfa 
vorable effects, nor the Orb's following pro 
tection ability. Neither Zuggtmoy nor luz 
can harm the possessor of Goldenskull, nor 
can either be the agent employing another 
to cause the user harm. 






If the possessor gazes upon the great 
throne in the Temple of Elemental Evil 
(upper level, area 3), he or she immediately 
knows how to operate it. The Throne can be 
caused to raise and lower itself, with the 
user, between the upper Temple works and 
dungeon level three (area 340). 

The user's Charisma with respect to Cha 
otic Evil creatures is raised to 20, or to -3 
when angry. The corresponding effects 
apply, i.e. for Charisma 20, +45% Reac 
tion Adjustment, Maximum 25 Henchmen 
(all Chaotic Evil), 60% Loyalty Base, Awe 
Power affecting up to 2 Hit Dice or Levels; 
for Charisma -3, -50% Reaction Adjust 
ment, Horror affecting up to 4 Hit Dice or 
Levels (again, only of Chaotic Evil crea 
tures) . Those affected by Awe or Horror are 
stunned into inaction by the mere sight of 
the possessor (no saving throw), and cannot 
initiate any action other than physical 
defense. 

ill Effects: 

No Good ever results from the employment 
of the Death Orb's powers, except on a very 
short-term or temporary basis. Thus, if evil 
can result from any use of the Orb, that 
occurs along with whatever was actually 
done. For example, an elemental conjured 
to fight against some evil creatures will do 
so, but in such a way as to allow them to 
harm the conjurer's associates to a maxi 
mum extent. Also, each time the Awe 
Power is brought forth, the user actually 
loses 1 point of Charisma (but only with 
respect to those not Chaotic Evil). 

Both Zuggtmoy and luz know the iden 
tity and exact location of any person in pos 
session of Yellowskull (their detection 
ability overpowering any and all protec 
tions magical or mundane). The protection 
of the Death Orb notwithstanding, Zuggt 
moy and/or luz can attempt to persuade or 
coerce the possessor to hand over the Orb 


(though they cannot take it by force). How 
ever, the possessor is forced to react to these 
Evil beings in a somewhat cooperative man 
ner, the degree corresponding to Charisma 
loss (from the use of the Awe Power)-a 
10% chance of persuasion existing for each 
point so lost, in play, if the character does 
not naturally cooperate, roll d% to check 
the correct current chance, and privately 
inform the player if persuasion has 
occurred. 

Any character who actually gives the 
Death Orb to either Zuggtmoy or luz 
becomes the hopeless thrall of the appropri 
ate Evil being ever afterwards. (This perma 
nently removes the character from PC play.) 

The Elemental Power Gems 

The gems of the Orb, and additional powers 
they bestow, are as shown on the table. 

The four gems of the correct size and 
shape to fit the diadem of the Orb are hid 
den in the Elemental Nodes connected to the 
Temple of Elemental Evil. 

Each gem radiates a strong enchantment. 
When touched, a loose gem immediately 
transports all creatures within 50 feet to the 
corresponding Elemental Node. No saving 
throw applies, and the victims arrive in the 
center of the Node map (q. v.). The gem tra 
vels with the victims. No other effect 
occurs, and no powers are bestowed. No 
effect occurs if a gem is touched while in its 
corresponding Node, but remember that the 
transport effect occurs elsewhere whenever 
the loose gem is touched. Repeat trips may 
thus occur before the possessor realizes that 
a container (ideally the Orb) must be used to 
prevent involuntary travel. 

When one of these gems is placed within 
its diadem mounting, the possessor gains 
the following abilities, and immediately 
realizes (and magically understands the 
process of) each of the effects. 

1. The noted spell power, usable once per 
week. 

2. Travel to and from the corresponding 


Elemental Plane at will (as if by using the 
teleport without error spell, but with no 
chance of error). 

3. Comfortable existence in the corres 
ponding element or Elemental Plane, 
taking no environmental damage. 

4. Conjure elemental once per week, sum 
moning from the appropriate Plane; 
however, no mental control is needed as 
long as the Orb is held (producing an 
effect much like the druid spells). The 
elemental is of small size (8 HD) but max 
imum hit points (64). (Note, however, 
that such summoning is NOT possible 
while on the same Elemental Plane.) 

5. Summon and control a demon of the 
type noted up to 3 times per day, but 
never more frequently than once per 
hour (6 turns). 

Before the final assault on the Temple by the 
forces of Good, Zuggtmoy carefully hid the 
gems in their corresponding Elemental 
Nodes. She then entrusted the gemless Yel 
lowskull to her priesthood, while she faced 
the onslaught of those whose magic then 
trapped her in her own stronghold. 

Destroying the Orb: 

The Death Orb can only be destroyed if all 
of its gems are properly inset, it must then 
be subjected to the following effects, in 
quick succession and in the proper order: a 
wind of 50 or more mph force; the strike of a 
maul made from a solid piece of granite; a 
very hot flame (1,000 degrees R); and 
immersion in very cold water (32 degrees 
F.). The procedure causes the Orb to shatter, 
which causes the Elemental Nodes and the 
Greater Temple (Dungeon Level Four, area 
417) to collapse, and the dungeon levels 
above as well. Zuggtmoy takes 111 points 
of physical damage, is unable to use any 
powers for four days, and cannot leave her 
own Abyssal Plane for 40 years, luz, having 
less invested in the Death Orb, merely loses 
the services of evil elemental creatures for 
four years. 


Element 

Gem 

Spell 

Demon 

Air 

Smoky quartz 

Wind walk 

Babau 

Earth 

Carnelian 

Earthquake 

Type I 

Fire 

Garnet 

Flame strike 

Type II 

Water 

Aquamarine 

Wall of ice 

Type 111 


128 




the 

TEMPLE OF 

ELEMENTAL 

EVIL 


This booklet contains all the maps neccessary to play the entire campaign adventure. Each 
is keyed to a specific section in the adventure book. Feel free to mark on and change these 
maps as the dungeon becomes altered during play. 



LOV/ROAD 


DANGER 


UNUSED TRACE ROAD 


HOMMLEr/'*"" 


MAP 1 FROM HOMMLET TO NULB 


SCALE: 1 HEX EQUALS 10 LEAGUES 


ERBOBONC 


NC O 


KRON HILLS 




1 


*1985 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 










THE VILLAGE 
OF HOMMLET 


I 


Buildings 
R 


Stream 


"irrrv r Jii 

\mmm 


pl 



iiv; i k ^ 

SBhsIh 





_j'IHI5 'I'il 

^ J 

¦VBIfifl 


CABINET maker 
1 4 LIMNER 










w 

iTSERitJUUSl 


inaMflm 


53 S! 


SH 

ifflrui 1 •tmmDiaml 


lE l 'IEIHD ^ 

lii p£i"5S 
fliiuavir^ 


a|SiB"i 

m: Mm wr 49 

" jNiri jaMivi •<" 

Tim jgsstSWJ 
H? 


M 




¦ 1 

L 

BARN 



Stone Wall 
Split Rail Fence 
Post Fence 

"1985 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved 


aKHSMMIBgSMimUiilPK I 

'agijciPigaisAgaHKKgBxia. ¦ 


2 





















MAP 4 

TRADERS' 

ESTABLISHMENT 


(r)1985 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved 





















MAP 7 RUINS OF THE MOATHOUSE 



11 UK 4 ^ 

L-J. MIKROIr 

i- " sx B 

L isnisn 

VULfiBKiOl 


?npnu^wiE^a^J^Ri; 


HUM 



" ir f 

TtT?" 
yvK 7 : 


Irmmmimm 
ta^asEnfl 
aawfn(tm) 

huhmmiI 

DHtfBK m 


-y parf 

aS. w -• . ;: 7J VJm H • •- t & f'-J t;' - ¦; i 


w7,n 


r " I > j 





MAP 8 MOATHOUSE DUNGEONS 











HBKBiinaKSI 

K!iaEB9KUaHQIRil 








m 


\m 

mm 


fpSSj 
mjmm 

¦HS.1I 


n 

r is 

IeI 

ic^ii 

F>JI 


PifillSB 

iPfea^ iit ¦¦¦¦¦¦¦ 

HUliBimuPiiiifl jbbbi 

¦BBHBBBBBHTITBtfBI 

piliiiaHaHH'nBiinBWiisni 
i^^aaaaBBflaa^aaaa^aaMWi 
¦Hl^flHBBBBBP^ BBKJBMkBB *i 
IKIHB^BBKIBBBBB^BBBBgiBBDkBKS 
¦HiiaBBBKIBB^^BBBBBBliB^^S 
¦iBBBBBB^^BBBB ^ 
¦BKBiaBBBBE BMBfl IBBfl 


H2H?1 


mmm 

¦ imam's' *y m 

Wf/I 

?:r; 


EE&I 


BBBIU! 

B liSaiBi 

am 


iiif aa.iiiB 

lllt'flBBBflfll 


iiiflK ai 

mmwBmm 

¦BBirfli 

^IKI 




\rp%i 














¦ 






















m 

IIV1V 




¦TA5 








|IJJ- 




•i'-' 


¦ 




¦ 

= 

E 

m 

i 






















f 








i 


y 


































































¦1985 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserve* 










mmiEiZHi 


11 


-1985 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 



















(r)1985 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved 













' 












mm 

IBMB 

ws 







rs: 

iij 

rvWj' 

"it 










iSSSSSSr 


14 


(r)1985 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 







15 


*1905 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 











16 


*1985 TSjR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 





Advanced Dunseons^ragons 

OFFICIAL GAME ADVENTURE 

THE 

TEMPLE OE 

ELEMENTAL 

EVIL 

by^ary GyOax 
wiifhlFrank Melltzen 


T 


, v " . .. the Ultimate Campaign Adventure .. ?' 


A sinister force, 


he fand^and 
vatchegr^rom 

tilif IOC 


e, long thought- destroyed, 
stits frohi tke blackjidre that spawned it. 4-ifte 
an "ebony darkness it prowls the 
safety is bilt an illusion, for it watches 
every shadow and ponders possibilities. 

What began years ago with the introduction 
of the players to the quiet village of Hpmml^t 
and thearrifizing lands of Greyhawk,' dt last Is 
corftplfye. Mere is the long awaited (iaippaign 
adventure featuring the ruins of the, ljpfnple of 
Elemental Evil! Ev@ broods and grows beneath 

/those -- L 

<Jri 


bla 

b 


asted'stones. This is your ct 
ack' and scatter its forces again: ¦ 
icUict Includes the village* of H#i 

ilffe 


riW^it 
ftp is pro 
' 7 mlet, the fit 
ruins of the Temple ¦ 
labyrinths that lit,t>' 
neSs. And beyond 


the village 

shire of Nulb, and revet 
,e <Jf Elemental Evil.ar.- 

ifof ^ 


eneath, a warren' 
these ru 

revealed. 

For the first time this product prpvide^ a 
complete can>paign adventure whkjt. will take 
begging characters from 1st all the Way to 
8tjf1evel and pbsstibly beyond! Hours of adven-, 
bring await youW 

jt i * '• *1* 

A. , * - 

rl Copyr'Aht 1985 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

- Ml ' ." ' " 

TSR, Inc. rf* 

P.O. Box 756 


t 


LakdGeneva, 
W153147/ 


jgMLjf* 


% 

TSR UK Ltd. 
The Mill, Rathmore goad 


Cambridge CB1 4A D 
United Kingde 
























