Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09110 C 3 The Lost Island Of Castanamir"
See other formats
C3 


Adventure For Character Levels 1-4 


9110 



Dun3eons0|pra3ons 


Official Competition Adventure 


The Lost Island of Ca 

, - 1 *. i : 

Ken Rolston 


¦v" <1 TSB, inc. - 

Moouciiaf foun imagination- 

ADVANCED DUNGEONS G 6^GOM5. ADGD, RPGA, PRODUCTS OF VOOR IMAGINATION, the TSR lOflO. 
and the RPC A loflO art trademarks of (SK, Inc. 


X\ON 






Adventure for Characters Levels 1-4 


Advanced 

Dungeons^pragons 

Official Competition Adventure 



The Lost Island of Castanamir 

Ken Rolston 



CREDITS 

Editor: Marlene Weigel 
Graphic Designer: Elizabeth Riedel 
Illustrator: Jeff Easley 
Cartography: Diesel 


Distributed lo ihe book trade in the United Stales by Random 
Hnuw Inc and in Canada by Random House of Canada. Ltd 
ADVANCED DUNGEONS A DRAGONS. PRODUCTS Of 
VOUR IMAGINATION, and thr TE>H lugci a if trademarks of 
TSR, Inc. 

This mod of* is protected under ibr copyright laws of the Untied 
Slates of America. Any reproduction or other unauthorized use of 
ihe material: or artwork contained herein is prohibited without the 
npms written permission of TSR, Inc. 

e tW TSR, Inc All Rights Reserved Printed in U S-A 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


HOW TO RUN THE ADVENTURE ....... _ 2 

How to Use This Module ...... 2 

CASTANAMIR^ LIVING QUARTERS ........ . ., # . 4 

Starting the Adventure ... # , # # # , 4 

The Setting .......... 4 

Encounter Key..*.. 4 

CASTANAMIR'S LABORATORIES AND WORKROOMS , ...21 

The Setting ... + , # ", # , # , f ......,,. . 21 

Encounter Key.... . ..,21 

NEW MONSTERS.......... 28 

PRE-ROLLED CHARACTERS .... .... ... .31 

TOURNAMENT SCORING ........32 

MAPS ...... Inside Cover 

DM Map 1: Living Quarters ... Inside Cover 

DM Map 2: Laboratories and Workrooms.. * Inside Cover 


TSR, Inc. 
ROB 756 
Lake Geneva 
Wl 53!47 



TSR. Inc. 

phoouCt* or roun imaqm 


TSR UK Ltd. 
The Mill, Raihmore Road 
Cambridge CBt 4AD 
United Kingdom 

ION'* 


Printed In U.S.A. 
ISBN 0-88038-169-2 
9110 

















T)OW to Run the adventure 


When Castanamir withdrew from the Magi 
cians" Guild, he was a wizard of the Elev 
enth Circle, and only a handful of mages 
were more powerful than he- He was 
renowned not only for his special spells, 
some of which remain secret to this very 
day, but also for his scholarship. He knew 
the legends of humans, demi-humans, 
giants, and goblins; theoretical and applied 
mathematics; dweomercraeft; metaphysics; 
and secrets of the astral r elemental, and 
ethereal planes. He had also a sense of 
humor, and while a visit to his home may 
prove fatal, it is more likely to amuse. What 
mysteries does his island contain? And why 
have those who ventured there never 
returned? 

THE LOST ISLAND OF CASTANAMIR 
is an adventure for 5 to 8 player characters 
of level 1 through 4, several of whom should 
be magic-users or clerics. The island consists 
of two series of rooms connected by means 
of magical portals which are described 
below. Unless PCs (player characters) man 
age to figure out the portal system, they will 
soon be hopelessly confused. However, a 
weak party of almost any character class 
combination may still escape the island-if 
they are not too greedy, and if they stick 
together and learn to cooperate. 

If PCs are too greedy or eager to fight, 
they may not escape alive. Encourage them 
to think before they act and to substitute 
cleverness for strength. Discourage any 
attempts to split up the party as it will be 
weakened that way. 

If a PC wishes not to believe what is hap 
pening at any given time, the attempt will 
take the entire round. No movement, spells, 
combat, etc., are possible during that time. 
Roll the die and then tell the PC he still 
believes. If the thing he has tried not to 
believe is real, the PC automatically fails 
any applicable saving throws. 

Because this adventure takes place on an 
isolated island independent of politics, 
social organization, or related geography, it 
may be easily fitted into any campaign that 
can accept the existence of Castanamir. 
Once the players have completed this 
adventure, a number of follow-up adven 
tures can be improvised. 

How To Use This Module 

In preparation, be sure you read the text 
carefully taking special care to understand 


the features of the one-way portal system. If 
you wait until play begins, you will delay 
the game too long trying to figure out where 
each character has been transported. 

Adventure Sections 

The setting: This section briefly describes 
each level and points out any special fea 
tures. 

Encounter key ; The different rooms in 
which encounters take place are numbered 
and keyed to the maps. 

Non-player characters and monsters: 
NFCs J and monsters' abilities are indicated 
where they first appear New monsters are 
covered in detail in the appendix, 

Adventure Maps 

DM Map 1: Living Quarters : This map 
shows Castanamirs living quarters and 
those rooms used for entertaining guests. 

DM Map 2: Laboratories and Work 
rooms: This map shows Castanamir's 
workrooms and laboratories, including a 
chapel, library, and exit to the island's sur 
face. 

Pre-Rolled Characters 

Pre-rolled characters are provided. Your 
players do not have to use these characters 
unless they want to. Their abilities are given 
in the center of the booklet and may be cut 
into individual cards for convenience. 

Non-Player Characters 

Whenever NPCs or monsters appear in the 
text, their abilities are listed this way: 

Name |NoJ; race/dass/leveL AC; MV; 
HD; hp; AL; #AT; Dmg; SA; SD. Weap 
ons; Equipment; Spells; other special as 
noted. 

New Monsters 

The gingwatzim, magical creatures who 
appear in three forms, are fully described on 
page 28, As they are complex, you should 
become familiar with them before beginning 
play. Other new monsters are also included 
in the appendix. 

Magical Portals 

The magical portals that connect all the 
rooms on the island are limited extensions 



of the principles of the teiepori spell. They 
will teleport anyone to a single predeter 
mined location. When a character walks 
through one. he arrives in a completely dif 
ferent room. There is no clue that he has 
been teleported ; the experience is indistin 
guishable from walking through a normal 
door. Since the PCs have no idea of where 
they really are after each teleportation, their 
mapping attempts will contradict the facts. 

On the maps, the portals in each room are 
marked with a code that tells which door a 
character will actually emerge from, such as 
5N, 6E, etc. The number refers to the room 
the character enters (to prevent confusion, 
numbers are used on DM Map 1 and roman 
numerals are used on DM Map 2). The letter 
part of the code tells which portal-north, 
south, east, or west-the character enters 
by. For example, on DM Map 1, a character 
leaving Room 1 by the southern portal (4E) 
will arrive in Room 4 through the eastern 
portal. There is no portal connection 
between the living quarters on DM Map 1 
and the labs on DM Map 2. To go from one 
to the other, PCs must pass through a con 
cealed opening in the ceiling of Room 7 and 
the floor of Room III. 

Another feature of these magical portals 
is that they permit only one-way passage. 
No light, sound, magic, or material can 
return once it has broken the plane of the 
portal. Anything reentering a portal will 
emerge through the opening to which it is 
keyed. For example, if PCs try to leave 
through the portal that brought them to 
Room 1, they will find themselves at the 
western end of Room 2. 

Sooner or later PCs are bound to discover 
that they are not where they thought they'd 
be. For example, they can walk south From 
room to room and eventually end up in the 
room they started from. However, you 
should not give hints as to the organization 
of the portals. 


2 



Abbreviations 

The following abbreviations are used throughout this module 


experience points 

strength 

intelligence 

wisdom 

dexterity 

constitution 

charisma 

type of die 

radius 

copper pieces 
silver pieces 
electrum pieces 
gold pieces 
platinum pieces 


armor class 

hit dice 

hit points 

movement rate 

number of attacks 

damage 

alignment 

special attacks 

special defenses 

lawful 

neutral 

chaotic 

evil 

good 








Casianamirs 
Living Quarters 


Use DM Map 1: Living Quarters 

Starting the Adventure 

Read the following background to the play 
ers. if you are fitting this adventure into a 
campaign, place names may be changed to 
fit your world. 


Five years ago in the Sea of Pastures an 
island mysteriously appeared. When 
adventurers attempted to investigate, 
their ships developed gaps in the hulls or 
were wrecked on invisible rocks. Those 
who managed to swim to the island were 
never heard from again. Those who 
dung to the wreckage and flagged down 
passing ships swore never to return. For 
a while no one dared go near the place. 
Then one day a young magician heard of 
the island and St reminded him of a leg 
end he knew, After a little further inves 
tigation, he was almost certain the island 
belonged to Castanamir the Mad. 

Castanamir was an 18th-ievel mage 
and hero of the Goblin Wars fought 200 
years ago. For a while he led the Council 
of Twelve and the Magician's Guild, but 
he was a stubborn, willful mage and 
soon Kis popularity dwindled. Finally, 
feeling betrayed and resentful, he went 
to live on an island in the Sea of Pastures, 
and those who remained his friends 
reported that he was growing eccentric 
and had fallen in with characters of an 
unsavory reputation. Then one day his 
island just disappeared. Those who 
knew him were not surprised and they 
assumed he had cast powerful spells to 
ward off intruders. As the years passed, 
he was forgotten, 

Castanamir was an acknowledged 
master of traditional spelkasting and a 
skilled enchanter. He was also a scholar 
interested in the abstract mathematics of 
network topology. Some of his works 
revealed a sense of humor, although 
those of a later date seemed rambling 
and confused. When his island disap 
peared he was a rich man and possessed a 
formidable collection of arcane lore. 

Believing that Castanamir had either 
died or lost his faculties and that this 
accounts for the reappearance of the 
island, the magician hired your party of 
adventurers to explore it and bring 


back whatever treasure you could find 
there. Since you were short on funds and 
winter was coming on, you decided to 
risk the attempt. You anchored your ship 
a distance away and swam to the island. 
The sea was rough, however, and much 
of your equipment and provisions was 
lost, and when you looked back, your 
ship was sinking. 

At first glance the island is a disap 
pointment. It is barren of all but rocks 
and short, wind-swept grass. There is no 
shelter, no edible plant life, and no wood 
for a fire. You are wet and hungry and a 
chill wind is blowing that promises to 
bring a storm with It, But just as dark 
ness falls, you discover at the center of 
the island a shallow depression with a 
stone door. The door is unlocked and 
when opened reveals a descending stone 
stairway. At its bottom is another door 
of an unfamiliar material. 


Castanamir is not on the island. 

The Setting 

Castanamir s living quarters are homelike. 
Although such things as books have col 
lected dust, there are signs that someone 
may have been in the rooms recently. 

Once inside, PCs may not return through 
the entry portal, 1/ they attempt it, they are 
sent immediately to Room 2. The only exit 
to the outside is from Room 111 in the labora 
tory area, DM Map 2, 

All ceilings are 16 feet high. Unless noted 
otherwise, light is continual and comes from 
fixtures about 30 feet apart along the walls 
at ceiling height. AH fixtures have lead cov 
ers that may be turned to block the light. 

Encounter Key 

IA, Living Room 


The room is dark green. On the walls are 
gold fabric wall hangings and paintings 
of wilderness landscapes, A watermelon- 
shaped metal object is moving back and 
forth across the floor in a regular pat 
tern. It has two stubby legs and feet but 
no head or arms. Against one wall is a 
simple oak table next to a large comer 
cabinet of dull metal. In the other comer 
is a wooden closet door. A mirror on the 
opposite wall has a very heavy filjgreed 
frame of unfamiliar metals, Two com 



fortable sofas and two chairs are 
arranged in front of a fireplace which 
glows with a fire. Across from the fire 
place is what looks like a pitch-black 
doorway, and to the right a sort of hall 
way leading to another black opening. In 
the hallway is also a wooden door. 


Anyone first entering this room does not 
notice that he has emerged from an 
enchanted portal unless he happens to turn 
around and look in that direction. The mov 
ing metallic object is a cleaning golem. It is 
equipped with a disintegrator ray for clean 
ing purposes but will not harm any but the 
most troublesome creatures. However, it is 
nearly indestructible,, and wil) defend itself 
if attacked. Incredibly heavy, the golem 
seems rooted to the floor. It immediately 
cleans up all messes, including destruction, 
debris, and corpses, but not unconscious 
creatures or valuable-looking items* 

It will not leave this room. If a character 
stands in its path it will stop, wait for a few 
rounds, and then detour around him and 
resume its regular pattern of movement. 

Cleaning Golem |1). AC 3; MV 2; HD 12; 
hp 52: #AT 1; Dmg disintegration (ray 
disintegrates everything in a cone with a 
radius of 6 inches at the source, 3 feet at 
the far end, and a range of 60 feet). 

The door to the cabinet in the northeast cor 
ner is sealed with a strip of a rubber-like 
insulation. Inside the magically refrigerated 
cabinet, which has been cooled to -50 
degrees Fahrenheit, are what appear to be 
dear crystal plates, goblets, and trophies, 
all inscribed in some unfamiliar language. 
The "crystal" is really ice and will melt if left 
too long outside the cabinet. The items will 
cause I point of damage if handled without 
protection. These are special trophies 
awarded Castanamir by ice creatures, and 
the inscriptions read "Thanks to Cas 
tanamir, true friend of cold. 1 ' 

The mirror detects as magical, although it 
appears perfectly ordinary, and permits 
one-way viewing from Room IB, It is 
securely fastened to the wall and cannot be 
removed. If the mirror is smashed or dam 
aged, only wall will be found behind it, and 
it will no longer function magically, It is sur 
prisingly durable; it must take 10 points of 
damage in a round to crack, and 15 points to 
break. 

The fireplace is false; there is no real fire, 
only a visual illusion. This will be suspected 


4 






by anyone who passes within a few feet of 
it. Inspection of the fireplace will reveal no 
route for smoke to escape-only solid wall. 

Inside the closet is an incredible accumu 
lation of assorted junk, and two lepre 
chauns. The contents of the closet are 
blanketed by illusion upon illusion: what 
looks like a hat is a wool blanket, which is 
really a cookpot, which is really a dog col 
lar, and so forth. The disguised objects in 
the closet include 22 gp, 280 sp, 290 cp, a 
sword +1, scroll of protection from demons, 
scroll of three spells (tongues, invisibility 
i0\ fly), a ring of free action, and a potion 
of levitation. 

Leprechauns [21; AC 8; MV 18; HD 1 fZ; hp 
3,3; AL N; #AT 0; Drug nil; magic resist 
ance 80%; SA spells, 75% chance to 
snatch an object, 25% chance to drop if 
pursued, can't be surprised; Spells (as 
natural ability): invisibility polymorph 
non-living objects , create illusions , ven- 
tnioquism. 

If the door is opened, one leprechaun 
becomes invisible, dashes out, snatches an 
item selected at random from the nearest 
party member, and dances about the room, 
giggling and teasing the characters. The 
other leprechaun cackles with glee from the 
safety of the closet. If the party permits the 
escaped leprechaun to get back inside the 
closet, he may polymorph the stolen item 
into something unusual (for example, a but 
ter chum) and stash it with the other goods. 
Unless the party captures a leprechaun and 
convinces him (by threat or persuasion) to 
give up the item, it may be losL forever. 
However, pleading with the little fellows is 
likely to soften their hearts, and they return 
any items the characters beg for. The lepre 
chauns may also donate something from 
their own store if the PCs' argument is mov 
ing enough. However, using polymorph 
they can pass off a piece of junk as treasure. 

These fellows were pets of Castanamir. 
They speak rapidly in high, squeeky, giggly 
voices, in the style of Mickey Mouse. They 
are not malevolent; snatching stuff is just a 
game with them and they are very puzzled if 
the PCs get upset about it. They know that 
this area was Castanamir's living room and 
that Castanamir hasn't been around in a 
long time. They can give a vague descrip 
tion of Castanamir-an old man with gray 
hair, a big nose, a good sense of humor, but 
no sense of fashion or taste in clothing. 
They can identify the cleaning golem and 
they know about the library (IB) which 
they've occasionally visited. Otherwise, 


they have never been out of this room; the 
magical portals frighten them, because Cas 
tanamir told them never to go near them. 

IB. Library 

The scene described below should be read to 
PCs only as they enter the room from the 
Living Room for the first time. If they enter 
from a room other than the Living Room, 
the Library will be deserted. 


There is a black portal in one wall. Book 
cases line two walls, and in the center is a 
small table and four chairs. In another 
wall is a clear glass window through 
which the Living Room may be viewed. 
In a corner are a desk and chair. The desk 
is messed up as though someone has 
searched it. On the floor lies a human fig 
ure face down and motionless. The body 
has no visible injuries. 


Two thieves are hiding in the room: Joblo is 
playing dead on the floor while Dublin 
hides behind the table with his bow ready. If 
party members survey the room for possible 
ambush, they will see Dobhn hiding, Doblin 
waits until he has a clear shot at a party 
member and gets iwo surprise bow shots. In 
the next round Joblo gets up and runs for the 
black portal while Doblin tosses a potion 
bottle full of water on the floor in front of 
the party. The potion bottle is a bluff 
intended to make the PCs hesitate long 
enough for the robbers to escape through 
the portal. 

The thieves only intend to weaken the 
party for the eventual kill. Then they hope 
to loot the bodies, looking for some magical 
item that will help them escape the island, 
where they've been trapped for several 
months. They haven't figured out the pat 
tern of the portals yet, but they have a good 
idea where each portal in each room leads. 
They have not discovered the laboratories. 
Joblo and Doblin stay alive by hitting and 
running. They are effective scavengers, and 
they love to get someone alone for an inti 
mate mugging. If captured, they will coop 
erate with a party that might be able to 
escape, but they will doublecross at the first 
opportunity. They are dangerous, treacher 
ous, and sly, but far too smart to provoke an 
open confrontation with the entire party. 

Doblin and Joblo; human/thieves/fourth 
level. AC 7; MV 12; HD 4; hp 12; AL LE; 
#AT 1; Dmg 1-6 or 1-4; SA strike from 
behind, double damage and *4 to hit. 


Weapons: shortsw'ord, short bow, dag 
ger. Magical Items, Doblin: potion of 
extra healing (unmarked), two *1 
arrows, a pouch of dust of appearance 
(two doses, negates invisibility ), and 80 
gp, Joblo; potion of levitation (un 
marked), javelin of lightning (ld6 *20 
electrical jolt damage, saving throw 
reduces damage to 10 points). Lightning 
bolt is 6 inches wide and 30 feet long. It 
works only once. If the bolt is reflected 
its backstroke causes 20 points of dam 
age. Joblo will use the javelin only if cor 
nered, wounded, and desperate. He does 
not know about the danger of a back- 
stroke. 

The desk contains none of Castanamir's pri 
vate papers, and is intended for the use of 
visitors. There are supplies of paper, ink, 
and pens, but no personal clutter. It has 
been searched by the thieves who were 
looking for keys or plans to the dwelling, 
The bookcases are full of light reading 
material on the following: the history of the 
Goblin Wars (in which Castanamir served 
with distinction, and is mentioned fre 
quently); the folklore of pixies, elves, grem 
lins, fairies, and other mythical creatures; 
and the conjuration of demons, spirits, and 
other powers. 

If the party fails to kill or capture both 
Doblin and Joblo, there is a 10% chance 
that any room in the living quarters con 
tains another hit-and-run ambush set up by 
the thieves. If seriously wounded, they 
retreat to Room 9E, 

2. LOUNGE 


This L-shaped room has light gray walls 
and a deep, comfortable floor covering. 
There are black openings in four of the 
walls. In one comer of the room is stacked 
a giant pile of furniture about 6 feet high. 
The stack of furniture seems carefully 
arranged. The floor covering shows signs 
of heavy objects having been dragged 
across it. In some places are stains which 
might be blood, and there is a foul odor 
here. 


Heavy breathing can be heard on the other 
side of the pile of furniture. The pile is a barri 
cade, behind which a group of hobgoblins 
have taken refuge. Also behind the barricade 
are cushions for sleeping and the evidence of 
several meals (bones and such, some human). 
The odor is garbage and offal. 


5 





BSA- 


Hobgoblins [15]; AC 5; MV 9; HD M; hp 8 
each; AL LE; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6; Weap 
ons: short sword and javelin* 

The hobgoblins arrived involuntarily in the 
Game Room about a month ago. There were 
28 of them originally but accidents, preda 
tors, and internal squabbles have taken their 
toll. They have taken over the lounge, and 
have been living on rats and other hobgoblins. 
They are too dumb to figure out their situation 
and adapt; their tribal traditions often gel in 
the way of dear thinking. They are becoming 
increasingly desperate in their search for food, 
but their current leader still has them orga 
nized and obedient. The leader has a gold 
medallion worth 300 gp, a scroll with four 
clerical spells (sanctuary fire resistance, cure 
light wounds (x2)), and a potion of healing 
(unmarked). He has no idea what his magic 
items are, though he has guessed they are 
valuable. 

The hobgoblins are sleeping when the 
party enters the room, but they have five 
guards on watch standing on chairs behind 
the wall and certainly know about the party 
before the party discovers them. They are 
likely to break and run when 25% to 50% of 
their number are down. Once the party has 
physically intimidated them, they will be 
eager to make deals, 

3. THE DINING HALL 


A large U-shaped dining table and 12 
chairs take up half the room. Tapestries 
that once covered the walls have been 
tom down and are mounded in one cor 
ner to a depth of about 4 feet, covering 
several of the chairs and part of the table. 
Giant rats sitting on the table scurry 
immediately for cover under it and the 
tapestries. The whole room is littered 
with rat droppings. Two fireplaces glow 
with fires. There are black openings in 
each of the four walls, A short, two- 
legged, watermelon-shaped, metallic 
object is partially hidden under the 
table. 


Giant Rats [20]; AC 7; MV 12/6; HD Va; 
hp 2 each; AL N; #AT 1; Dmg 1-3 + 5% 
chance of disease. 

The rats provide an emergency source of 
food, but Doblin and foblo (Room lB) 
really look on these beasts as their pets. The 
rats valiantly defend their home, but do not 
fight unless they have to. In the mound of 
tapestries the rats use as a den, the thieves 


have hidden two gold statues (2,000 gp 
each, encumbrance of 1,500 gp each), a 
large steel pitcher (magical, fills with mead 
on command but has no directions for its 
use), a large brazier, and two arm-length 
gloves of fire resistance (protect wearers 
arms from normal or magical fire; adds *2 to 
saving throws vs, magical fire damage). 

The cleaning golem is broken and doesn't 
work. 

4. THE KITCHEN 


This room contains two stoves, a three- 
doored oven, two sinks, a long work 
table, and a giant spice cabinet. Pots and 
pans are strewn all over the floor. There 
are scraps of food lying about every 
where, parcels of food ripped open and 
sampled, then discarded, and partially 
gnawed bones. The contents of a spice 
cabinet can be seen in the rubbish. Mov 
ing across the floor is impossible without 
making noise. There is a black opening 
in each wall; a wooden door and a large 
metal door are on either side of one of the 
openings. 


The wooden door leads to the pantry (the 
small room in the northwest) and the metal 
one is the icebox door. Neither detects as 
magical, but the portals do. The pantry 
shelves are filled with various kinds of food. 
The supply replenishes itself every day. The 
freezer is likewise full of fresh carcasses of 
various animals, dressed and ready to cook; 
the freezer refills itself automatically. The 
oven and stoves detect as magical because 
they have a magical source of heat. The 
sinks are magical, too, because they drain 
into another plane and the water is created 
magically. By turning knobs and faucets the 
party can learn to operate this equipment by 
trial and error, The pans have been scattered 
about as a warning system for the two ber 
serkers living in the pantry. 

Berserker [2]; fighter/5th level. AC 6; MV 
12; HD 5; hp 25, 36; AL N; #AT 3/2; 
Dmg 1-8+2 or 1-6+2; Weapons: ax and 
throwing ax; second berserker carries a 
philter of love and a potion of climbing 
but has no idea what they are, a jeweled 
dagger handle worth 300 gp, and 50 cp in 
cash: both keep fighting for two rounds 
after their hit points drop below 1, or 
until their hit points reach -10. 

The berserkers are in a position of real 
power, since they control the source of food 


AM 


on the island. They are very bored, how 
ever, and love to break the monotony by 
popping out of their stronghold and surpris 
ing humans or creatures, for fun and exer 
cise. They are rather slow wilted and will 
charge instantly into a fight, always giving a 
last hack at the enemy after he is down. For 
this attack they are 100% to hit and do the 
weapon's full damage. They will do this 
even if it means ignoring a dangerous oppo 
nent (who is then also 100% to hit, though 
he only rolls for his damage). These killers 
get two attacks every other round, and they 
battle as 7th level fighters. Their weapons 
cause only ld8 and Id6 in normal hands. 
They don't understand magic very well. The 
berserkers have only been here five days. 
They arrived through Room 5, and are terri 
bly confused by the portals, 

5* THE GAME ROOM 


This is a large, empty room with an 
enclosed square area in the center which 
appears to have seams running from floor 
to ceiling. There is a black opening in each 
wall and a selection of weapons hanging 
on the left and right walls. The weapons 
include 4 throwing daggers, 2 normal dag 
gers, 10 darts in a quiver, 1 shortsword, 2 
quarterstaves, and 2 short spears. There 
are some vacant racks suggesting that 
other items have been removed. 


The seams in the enclosure are for sliding 
doors. Sixty seconds in real time after one of 
the party enters this room, a monster is tele 
ported into the enclosure from an unknown 
location and released by means of the slid 
ing doors. Two north and south doors rise at 
once into the ceiling, leaving walls on the 
east and west. The monster arrives facing 
north, The teleport automatically resets 
itself, but will work only twice per day. 
Monsters are teleported in the following 
order: 

Feral Slasher: AC 2; MV 24; HD 2+3; hp 15; 
AL CN; #AT4; Dmg 1-6/1-6/1-4/1-4. 

The slasher attacks the first creature it sees, 
but it is slow-witted-it reacts to a change in 
its situation on the round after the change. 
The feral slasher won't leave this room. 
Until it is killed, it is encountered whenever 
the characters enter the room. 

Ogres [2|: AC 5; MV 9; HD 4+1; hp 25 f 22; 
AL CE; #AT 1; Dmg 1-10. 


6 






The ogres do not attack immediately; they 
first fry to go home, futiJeJy searching for a 
path back through the teleport. They then 
turn to assess the party's threat. If the party 
attacks, of course, they return the attack. If 
the party seriously injures one of the ogres, 
it flees through one of the portals and 
becomes a wandering monster. There is a 
10% chance to encounter one of these crea 
tures thereafter in any room the characters 
enter, and there is also a 10% chance that 
the ogres will wander into any room where 
the party has been for 10 minutes of real 
time. 

The game room was designed for recrea 
tion. Castanamir used as little magic as he 
could in fighting monsters teleported in, and 
often risked real harm. He usually returned 
the creatures to their planes, slightly 
wounded, terrified, and confused. How 
ever, the party does not know the com 
mands he used, and the recall system which 
sends the monster back where it came from 
is only automatic after 10 minutes of game 
time (10 rounds). The command words for 
the room are: "start/" which overrides the 
room entry control and immediately 
releases a creature; "end/' which disarms the 
automatic release until the start command is 
used again; '"file/' which releases the most 
recently filed creature. Of course, it is 
doubtful that the party will guess these com 


mands, but an examination of rooms SB and 
8D may reveal them. 

6. FANTASY ROOM 

You seem to be in a closet-sized room 
with three blank walls facing you. When 
the walls are touched they seem insub 
stantial; anything that touches them 
seems to pass directly through and disap 
pears. 


This is the equivalent of Castanamir's TV 
room, and he used it to produce some mar 
velous dramas of the imagination. Four 
powerful maronzim have been bound as 
small figurines that sit in the far corners. 
These spirits are compelled to provide illu 
sions involving the greatest fears or desires 
of any being entering their area. The room is 
divided into four sections corresponding to 
four elemental human emotions: joy (north 
west), despair (northeast}, hate (south 
west), and love (southeast). The illusion a 
being receives depends on his location, 
Once one is accustomed to the experience, it 
is possible to resist and shape the projec 
tions of the maronzim, but initially the 
experience is overwhelming, and no 
attempts at disbelief or dispelling the illu 
sion affect it. 


When a character sticks his head beyond 
one of the illusory walls, take the player 
aside and explain to him privately that his 
character is completely involved in a fan 
tasy. The fantasy should be appropriate to 
the personality of the character. For exam 
ple, a fighter receiving the illusion of Love 
might think that the woman of his dreams 
has been captured by a dragon and is 
beseeching his aid. The PC must make his 
saving roll against spells before he can tear 
himself out of the fantasy. He must repeat 
the roll once per round until hes successful. 

If other party members try to drag the 
affected person out of the area, he struggles 
with them and tries to return. If they merely 
call to him, he does not respond. If the char 
acter is pulled from the area of effect, or 
leaves the area after he has saved success 
fully, the illusion ends and he may return to 
the other PCs. In either case, he should be 
prepared to answer any questions the party 
may have about what he saw. It is possible 
that two or more players may enter the 
same area at once. They will have their own 
private fantasies that are not related. 

Party members may protect themselves 
from the full effect of the illusion by stop 
ping their ears and covering their eyes. This 
will prevent them from being overwhelmed, 
but it will not confer permanent immunity. 


7 
























































ee* 


If the player should reenter the area again 
without blocking his senses, he will be 
affected. Once a character has resisted one 
illusion, he will recognise the other illusions 
for what they are. However, recognizing 
that the experience is an illusion does not 
make it disappear? sights, sounds, and 
smells will persist, although he can use his 
sense of touch to investigate the surround 
ings. 

The figurines/mar orczim are located on 
shelves about 10 feet from the floor. They 
are concealed by the illusion and it is 
unlikely the party will discover them. 

7. GINGWATZIM ROOM 


A sign hangs from the ceiling in the cen 
ter of this circular room which reads in 
common, goblin, and magic argot. Its 
top line reads: "Gingwatzim exhibit: DO 
NOT CROSS LINES." In each quadrant 
of the floor is a bright orange painted line 
extending in a semi-circle. Next to each is 
a sign. In the first quadrant behind the 
Line is a glass cabinet. From it shines a 
blue globe of light with a radius of 5 feet, 
and it seems to contain a plant and an 
amulet. Two hobgoblins lie motionless at 
the foot of the cabinet. In the second 
quadrant is a glass cabinet containing a 
short staff and a globe of green light with 
a radius of 5 feet. Another green sphere 
floats here and there to the right of the 
cabinet but behind the line on the floor. 
In the third quadrant is a glass cabinet 
and a spherical grey light with a radius of 
5 feet. There is a short sword in the cabi 
net and another lying on the floor to the 
right of the cabinet behind the warning 
line. In the fourth quadrant is an empty 
broken glass cabinet. No globe of light is 
visible. Four black openings are located 
at opposite points outside the warning 
lines. 


On the wall in each of the four quadrants is 
a placard: "Tim," "Pakim" "Graegzim," and 
"Eoluzim" The center sign has more in small 
print: "In each area are found the three typi 
cal forms and one multiform example of the 
lower orders of Gingwatzim, Do not con 
tact any objects or manifestations behind 
the warning lines " 

The Gingwatzim are described in detail at 
the end of this adventure. The room is a dis 
play area for some of Castanamir's magical 
handiwork-the sort of thing he would 
share with visiting magic-users* 


The first quadrant contains the tim 
exhibit. The multiform has disappeared. 
Remaining is the free form blue sphere, a 
tim bound in the form of the amulet, and a 
tim bound in the form of the yellow musk 
creeper with purple splotches. The free form 
attacks any character entering its area each 
round until successful, after which the vic 
tim becomes paralyzed and loses 1 point of 
strength per round until unconscious and 
exhausted. The amulet gives a +1 on saving 
throws vs. spells, and the creeper is harm 
less. The hobgoblins are dead. 

Free Form Tim: AC 0: MV 16; HD 2; hp 9; 
AL N; #AT 1; Dmg special; SA strength 
drain; SD *1 or better weapon to hit. 

The second quadrant contains a free form 
pakim (a green sphere), a bound pakim in 
the form of a staff *l t and a multiform 
pakim currently in its free form (the other 
floating green sphere). The free form pakim 
will attack any character entering its area 
each round until an attack is successful, 
after which the victim becomes paralyzed 
and loses 3 points of strength per round 
until he falls unconscious and exhausted. 
The multiform pakim in animate form is a 
baboon. If the pakim is under the control of 
a character, the baboon will follow that 
character's directions. In inanimate form it 
is a dagger *l t with no intelligence and weak 
empathy. This creature is able to change 
from the free form globe to a baboon or to a 
dagger *1 on the command word 
"Presto 1"-a fact that may be revealed by 
the graegzim in the third quadrant, who has 
overheard the command numerous times. 
Anyone who handles the pakim in its inani 
mate form {the dagger) becomes its owner 
and may command it with or without the 
command word. It cannot change forms of 
its own free will. 

Free Form Pakim: AC 0; MV 16; HD 2*4; 
hp 12; AL N; #AT I; S special; SA 
strength drain; SD *1 or better weapon to 
hit. 

Multiform Pakim: AC 7; MV 12; HD 1*1; 
hp 6; AL N; #AT 1; Dmg 1-4. 

The greyish globe in the third quadrant is a 
free form graegzim, Any character entering 
the area of its grey globe will be attacked 
each round until an attack is successful, 
after which the victim becomes paralyzed 
and loses 4 points of strength per round 
until he falls unconscious and exhausted. In 
the cabinet is a graegzim bound as a short 
sword *2 . The short sword *2 on the floor is 


AM 


the inanimate, intelligent form of a multi 
form graegzim. In its free form it has the 
same abilities as the first graegzim. In ani 
mate form it is a fremlin. If a character takes 
possession of the graegzim in its inanimate 
sword form, the fremlin, too, will follow 
the owner's directions, though it will com 
plain and drag its feet. Information gained 
from the fremlin form is essentially correct, 
but often twisted to suit the fremlin s humor. 
The owner may converse with it or com 
mand it at will. Its knowledge of this world 
is limited to what it has seen in this room, 
but it could certainly reveal the entry to 
Castanamir's laboratories and other inter 
esting tidbits. Its self-knowledge is 
extremely limited. It only knows that it is a 
graegzim because it overheard Cas tan amir 
say so, and it has no notion of its origins or 
nature. 

Free Form Graegzim: AC 0: MV 16; HD 
3*6; hp 13; AL N; #AT 1; Dmg special; 
SA strength drain; SD *1 or better 
weapon to hit, 

Fremlin; AC 6; MV 12; HD 3-6; hp 18; AL 
CN; #AT 1; Dmg 1-4; SD *1 weapon to 
hit. 

The fourth quadrant no longer contains any 
eoluzim. The access to Room 111 in the labo 
ratories is through the illusory ceiling, Cas- 
tanamir used a pair of boots of levitation to 
float through the ceiling illusion. This was 
witnessed numerous times by the graegzim, 
which may in turn impart the information 
to the PCs. 

8A. GUEST ROOM CORRIDOR 


Here are two black openings at either 
end of an apparently empty hallway. 
Two more black openings face one 
another halfway down the lengths of the 
longer walls. In each long wall is also a 
wooden door. The doors are across from 
one another and at one end of the length 
of the hall. 


Both wooden doors have locks which seem 
to have been forced violently. One door 
seems securely barred from the inside. The 
door to Room 8D opens easily. The door to 
Room SB, on the other hand, must be bro 
ken into. Even if the door is unbarred with a 
knock spell, it will require two characters 
with 16* strength to force their way in. 


9 







tm ttfdmni 






§W^ L 

































SB & SD. GUEST ROOMS 


The room has been exhaustively 
searched. It contains comfortable furni 
ture and stacks of books which have 
been ripped apart and carelessly tossed 
in comers. The books are light reading 
material on various topics, probably 
selected with an eye to entertaining a 
guest* There is a wooden door in the far 
corner. 


The furniture in Room 8B has been piled 
against the outer door A doorbar was 
improvised from the leg of a broken chair. If 
the characters spend a total of two hours 
examining the books, they come across ref 
erences explaining the function of the Fan 
tasy Room (Room 6). Another half-hour 
will yield a description of the Game Room 
(Room 5), the necessary command words, 
and a caution about its dangers. 

The lizard men from Room SC will not 
bother anyone in Room SB unless someone 
tries to force the door to where they are hid 
ing* 

8C & 8E> GUEST ROOM 


This is an unremarkable, comfortably 
furnished bedroom. There are signs of a 
search and the beds have been used 
recently* The linen is very old and musty: 
it hasn't been changed in a long time* 


Lizard Men [2]: AC 5: MV 6/12: HD 2-1; 
hp 10: AL N; #AT 3; Dmg 1-2/1-2/1-6; 

Intelligence High, 

The lizard men hiding behind the bed leap 
oul and hurl darts. They are rather puzzled, 
but are coping well. They are from a culture 
where magic is suppressed, and they assume 
that all magic is simply incredibly advanced 
technology. They are very intelligent, but 
they do not speak any language that a PC 
can recognize. Their culture is so vastly dif 
ferent that il is difficult for them to commu 
nicate at any level, even with the use of a 
spell. They fight only to defend themselves 
and steadfastly refuse to cooperate. They 
have stripped one of the weapon racks from 
Room 5 and have cached the weapons here. 
They are unfamiliar with the use of most of 
these arms but have tried the darts in des 
peration. They are not fighters in the culture 
they come from and are actually more effec 
tive fighting without weapons* 

The lizard men defend their refuge as long 
as the PCs continue aggressive behavior, 
but will not pursue them if they break off 


the attack and retreat. They want to be left 
alone. They attempt to communicate if the 
party shows signs of intelligence and peace 
ful intent. 

9A. CORRIDOR TO 
SERVANTS' QUARTERS 


There are two black openings at the ends 
of an apparently empty hallway. Two 
black openings face one another halfway 
down the length of the longer walls. In 
each long wall is a wooden door. They 
are situated across from one another 
toward one end of the hall, Both wooden 
doors seem to have been forced open 
violently. 


Both normal wooden doors open easily. 

9B. SERVANTS' QUARTERS: 
MONNE'S SITTING ROOM 


The room has been exhaustively 
searched, It is filled with luxurious, over 
staffed furniture and a host of tacky but 
ex pensive-loo king trinkets and bric-a- 
brac: little statues, precious stone carv 
ings, and so forth* The effect is similar to 
that of a souvenir/gift shop. There is a 
life-sized statue of a kobold In full battle 
array in a far comer. In the opposite far 
comer there is a wooden door. There are 
very few books-most of them full of 
colorful drawings. The majority are 
written in the Kobold language. There 
are many games and toys here and there. 


9C. SERVANTS' QUARTERS: 
MONNE'S BEDROOM 


This room is filled with chests-20 or 
more-stacked around the outer walls. 
The lids of many are open, revealing 
expensive and colorful clothes. The bed 
is a mess* There is a badly decomposed 
body in the far comer of the room, the 
species of which is unclear. Whatever it 
was, it was humanoid, short in stature, 
and shows no sign of a violent death. 
There is a paper on the floor with the fol 
lowing note written in common: 

Master We kepe hows nice sins you bin 
gone. KJeko got sik and dide , Me burnd 
bahdee in oven. Me sik now . Not much 
time. Golum in dining had broke , 
Monne 


Monne and Kleko were Castanamir's goblin 
servants. Both died of a common goblin dts- 


AM 


ease, There is nothing of value in this room, 
but anyone who handles the corpse will 
contract the goblin disease. The incubation 
period is one day. The second day after 
touching the corpse the character feels tired 
and ill, is incapable of strenuous activity 
like running or fighting, and has a mild tem 
perature. The third day after he has touched 
the corpse he will wake with a high tempera 
ture, totally disabled, retaining only 50% of 
his normal hit points. This stage of the dis 
ease lasts for two days. On the fifth day 
after touching the corpse he will wake nor 
mal and healthy again. 

9D, SERVANTS'QUARTERS: 
KLEKO'S SITTING ROOM 


This room is dark. In the light from the 
hall you can see furniture and rubbish all 
over the floor The light fixtures have 
been shuttered. Four heavy crossbows 
have been set up to face where you are 
standing* There is a wooden door in the 
far corner. 


If the players don't check for traps, the 
crossbows fire when they step into the 
room* If they examine the rubbish on the 
floor carefully before entering, they will 
notice the crossbow trigger concealed there. 
Pushing a heavy weight through the door 
first will set off the trap. The trap attacks as 
a 4th level thief doing 2-5 damage for each 
of four bolts. 

9E* SERVANTS' QUARTERS: 
KLEKO'S BEDROOM 


The light fixtures have been shuttered* 
The room is dark. The walls are covered 
with colorful designs and there is a single 
cot in the center of the room. A crude 
door bar has been made for the door. 
The cot shows signs of recent occupancy. 
The wall designs, starting at the wall 
containg the door and proceeding dock 
wise around the room, show a small cot 
tage with a real door worked into the 
composition and set in a forest clearing, 
a dense forest with great straight 
trunked trees, a great cavern chamber, 
and moonrise over a forest river* 


This is the hideaway of the thieves found in 
Room lB. (See statistics on page 5.) If they 
were seriously wounded, they have 
retreated here. If found, they fight until 
killed or captured. Except for eight days 
worth of cached emergency rations under 
the cot, there is nothing here of value. 


11 










ft iiiiiHimw 


































































































































































ABNIR MREMHOUSE 

2nd level human Magic-User 
STRENGTH 12 

Weight Allowance 1600 maximum/1150 unencumbered 
Open Doors 1-2 
Bend Bars/Lift Gates 4% 

INTELLIGENCE 15 

Maximum Number of Languages 5 
Chance to Know Each Listed Spell 65% 

Spells/Level 7 minimum/11 maximum 
WISDOM 11 (No adjustments) 

DEXTERITY 15 

Defensive Adjustment -1 
CONSTITUTION 17 

Hit Point Adjustment *2 
System Shock Survival 97% 

Resurrection Survival 93% 

CHARISMA 10 

Maximum Number of Henchmen 4 

ARMOR CLASS 10/9 (dexterity) 

BASE MOVE 12" 

HIT POINTS 7 

o o 0 o o o o 

BASE-TO-HIT AC: 

10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 -1 -2 -3 -4 

11 12 ; 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 20 20 20 20 21 



RELEK NOSHOUSE 

3rd level human Magic-User 

STRENGTH 14 

Weight Allowance 1700 maximum/1250 unencumbered 

Open Doors 1-2 

Bend Bars/Lift Gates 7% 

INTELLIGENCE 17 

Maximum Number of Languages 7 
Chance to Know Each Listed Spell 75% 

Spells/Level 8 minimum/14 maximum 
WISDOM 7 

-1 to saving throws vs. Mental Attacks 
DEXTERITY 14 (No adjustments) 

CONSTITUTION 15 

Hit Point Adjustment *1 
System Shock Survival 91% 

Resurrection Survival 94% 

CHARISMA 11 

Maximum Number of Henchmen 4 


ARMOR CLASS 10 (no armor) 
BASE MOVE 12* 

HIT POINTS 6 

o o o o o o 



BASE TO-HIT AC: 

10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 -1 -2 -3 -4 

11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 20 20 20 20 21 


13 




SAVING THROWS 

Paralyzation, Poison, or Death Magic 14 
Petrification or Polymorph 13 
Rod, Staff, or Wand 11 
Breath Weapon 15 
Spell 12 


WEAPONS 


Magic Items 

Rod of Spell Storing (non-rechargeable), has one each of the 
following spells, detect invisibility, locate object, identify. 


ESP. 


LANGUAGES 

Dwarven, halfling, goblin, ordsh 


Rate Range Bonus To Hit Dantage/Bonus 
Dagger 1 1/2/3 N/A 1-4/M EQUIPMENT 

Dagger, spell book, components 

Proficiencies: Dagger 
Non-Proficiency Penalty: -5 


Abnlr Mremhou&e is a specialist in detection, anti-magic traps, and 
defensive magic. He is against killing, but might join a melee to pro- 
MAGIC tect the party. His morale is high; he is independent and exercises 

initiative in emergencies. Otherwise, he looks to Paterno, the pala- 
Spell Use two 1st level spells din, for direction. He is a scholar more than an adventurer, and he 

plays the role of peacemaker 

Spell Book 

Comprehend Languages Hold Portal Read Magic 

Shield Sleep Unseen Servant 

Identify 


SAVING THROWS 

Paralyzation, Poison, or Death Magic 14 
Petrification or Polymorph 13 
Rod, Staff, or Wand 11 
Breath Weapon 15 
Spell 12 


Magic Items 

Wand of Fireballs (2 charges) 


LANGUAGES 

Dwarven, eiven, halfling, goblin, gnoll, hill giant 


WEAPONS 

Rate Range Bonus To Hit Damage/Bonus 

Dagger 1 1/2/3 N/A I-4/1-3 

Proficiencies: Dagger 
Non-Proficiency Penalty: -5 

MAGIC 

Spell Use two 1st level spells, one 2nd level spell 


EQUIPMENT 

Dagger, spell book, components 


Relek Noshouse specializes in deadly magic, and has no qualms 
about killing evil creatures. His morale is only fair-not cowardly, 
but very conscious of his frailty. He tends to use up consumable 
magical items so fast that he is always short on magical support 
when he needs it. He is always eager to obtain new items, particu 
larly destructive ones. 


Spell Book 

First Level Spells: 

Affect Normal Fires Magic Missile Shield 

Read Magic Shocking grasp Sleep 

Unseen Servant 
Second Level Spells: 

Knock Stinking Cloud Web 


14 



GENTON STLINDHOUSE 

3rd level human Cleric 

STRENGTH 12 

Weight Allowance 1600 maximum/II50 unencumbered 

Open Doors 1-2 

Bend Bars/Lift Gates 4% 

INTELLIGENCE 12 

Maximum Number of Languages 4 
WISDOM 15 

Spell Bonus: two 1st level and one 2nd level spell 
*1 to saving throws vs. Mental Attacks 
DEXTERITY 9 (No adjustments) 

CONSTITUTION 10 

System Shock Survival 70% 

Resurrection Survival 75% 

CHARISMA 12 

Maximum Number of Henchmen 5 


ARMOR CLASS 8 {leather armor) 

BASE MOVE 12" 

HIT POINTS 19 

OOOOOOOOOO 

OQOQOOOOO 

BASETD-HIT AC: (using magical mace) 

10 9 8 7 6 5 4 


8 9 10 11 12 13 14 



5 2 10-1 -2 -3 

is 16 17 18 19 20 20 


-4 


20 


"BEETLE" FARHILLS 

2nd level half ling Thief 

STRENGTH 12 

Weight Allowance 1600 maximum/1150 unencumbered 

Open Doors 1-2 

Bend Bars/lift Gates 4% 

INTELLIGENCE 8 

Additional Languages 0 
WISDOM 13 (No adjustments) 

DEXTERITY 18 

Reaction/Attacking Adjustment *3 
Defensive Adjustment -4 
CONSTITUTION 11 

System Shock Survival 75% 

Resurrection Survival 80% 

CHARISMA 11 

Maximum Number of Henchmen 4 


ARMOR CLASS 8 (leather armor)/4 (dexterity) 

BASE MOVE 9* 

HIT POINTS 8 

oooooooo 
BASE-TQ-HIT AC: (including reaction/attack adjustment) 

10 9876543 



2 1 0 -1-2-3 -4 


8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 20 20 


15 




SAVING THROWS 

Paralyzation, Poison, or Death Magic 10 
Petrification or Polymorph 13 
Rod, Staff, or Wand 14 
Breath Weapon 16 
Spell 15 


WEAPONS 

Rate Range Bonus To Hit Damage Bonus 

Footman's 

Mace *2 1 N/A *2 (magic) 1-6 * 3/1-6 * 2 

Proficiencies: Foot mans Mace, Flail 
Non-Proficiency Penalty: -3 


MAGIC 

Spell Use four 1st level spells, two 2nd level spells 

Magic Items 

Footman's Mace *2 

Holy Ring (non-rechargeable), stores 1 each of the following 
spells: detect evil , detect magic , protection from evil , sanctu 
ary 


SAVING THROWS (+3 bonus if dexterity adjustment applies) 
Paralyzation, Poison, or Death Magic 13/10 
Petrification or Polymorph 12 
Rod, Staff, or Wand 11 
Breath Weapon 16 
Spell 12 


WEAPONS 

Rate Range Bonus To Hit Damage/Bonus 

Dagger*1 1 1/2/3 *1 (magic) 2-S/2-4 


LANGUAGES 

Dwarven, elven, goblin 


EQUIPMENT 

Leather armor, holy symbol, flask of holy water, components 


Genton StUndhouse is a specialist in healing and protection, with 
some fighting ability. He is conservative and cautious, a team man 
with high morale, and he restrains the reckless impulses of others. 
He is lawful and frowns on theft and destruction. He tends to be 
stuffy and wordy, but a cool and reliable hand in combat. 


RACIAL ABILITIES 

tnfravision 60' 

Constitution bonus for saving throws vs. Poison 
Determine if passage is up or down grade 75% of time 
Determine direction 50% of time 
If alone and not in metal armor, can surprise on d6,I-2 


MAGIC ITEMS 

Dagger +1 (1 12, E2, semi-emphathetk. detects magic within 
1 * up to once per turn, 


Proficiencies: Dagger, short sword 
Non-Proficiency Penalty: -3 

LANGUAGES 

Dwarven, halfling, goblin, orcish, gnome, elven 

THIEF SKILLS 

PP OL F/R T MS HS HN CW EQUIPMENT 

50% 49% 35% 41% 40% 15% 71% Leather armor, thief tools, rope and grappling hook 

*4 on attack from behind, double damage 


"Beetle" FarhtHs specializes in stealth, scouting, traps, and locks* 
He is independent, but understands his team role. He will avoid 
melee, but is willing to do what must be done. He has a high morale, 
and is more rash and impulsive than the others, but he is learning 
prudence through experience. He is eager to prove himself to his 
companions. 


16 



WATIM BERELSTANE 

4th level dwarf Thief 


STRENGTH 11 

Weight Allowance 1500 maximum/1D5G unencumbered 

Open Doors 1-2 

Bend Bars/Lift Gate 2% 

INTELLIGENCE 13 

Additional Languages 0 
WISDOM 16 

+2 to saving throws vs. Mental Attacks 
DEXTERITY 15 

Defensive Adjustment -I 
CONSTITUTION 16 

Hit Point Adjustment *2 
System Shock Survival 95% 

Resurrection Survival 96% 

CHARISMA 10 

Maximum Number of Henchmen 4 


ARMOR CLASS 8 (leather armor) 

BASE MOVE 9" (24" with boots of speed) 

HIT POINTS 18 

OOOQOOOOO 
0 Q 0OOQ0QO 

BASE-TO-HIT AC: 

10 9876543 


11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 



-4 


21 


PORAIL FREHOUSE 

3rd level elf Fighter 

STRENGTH 16 

Damage Adjustment +1 

Weight Allowance 1850 maximum/1400 unencumbered 

Open Doors 1-3 

Bend Bars /Lift Gates 10% 

INTELLIGENCE 12 

Additional Languages 0 
WISDOM 15 

*1 to saving throws vs. Mental Attacks 

DEXTERITY 16 

Reaction/Attacking Adjustment +1 
Defensive Adjustment -2 
CONSTITUTION 11 

System Shock Survival 75% 

Resurrection Survival 80% 

CHARISMA 13 

Maximum Number of Henchmen 5 

ARMOR CLASS 8 (leather armor)/6 {shield *J)/4 (dexterity) 
BASE MOVE 12" 

HIT POINTS 18 

ooooooooo 

QOQOOOOQO 

BASE-TO-HIT AC: (including reaction/at tack adjustment) 

10 9876543 



2 1 0 -1 *2 -3 -4 


7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 20 


17 




SAVING THROWS 

Paralyzatson, Poison, or Death Magic 13/Q 

Petrification or Polymorph 12 

Rod, Staff, or Wand 10 

Breath Weapon 16 

Spell 11 


WEAPONS 

Rate Range Bonus To Hit Damage/Bonus 

Broadsword*! 1 N/A +1 {magic) 2-8*1/1-6*1 

Proficiencies: Broadsword, dagger, sling 
Non-Proficiency Penalty: -3 


THIEF SKILLS 

PP OL F/RT MS HS HN CW RL 

45% 47% 40% 33% 25% 15% 78% 15% 

*4 on attack from behind, double damage 


SAVING THROWS 

Paralyzation, Poison, or Death Magic 13 
Petrification or Polymorph 14 
Rod, Staff, or Wand 15 
Breath Weapon 16 
Spell 16 


WEAPONS 

Rate Range Bonus To Hit Damage/Bonus 

Longsword *1 1 N/A *1 (elf)/ 1-8+2/HI 2*2 

+1 (magic) 

Short bow 2 5/10/15 *1 (elf) 1-6/1-6 

Proficiencies: Longsword, short bow, spear, dagger 
Non-Proficiency Penally: -2 


RACIAL ABILITIES 

In fra vision 60' 

Detect secret door automatically, 1 in 6 

Detect secret door if searching, 2 in 6 

Detect concealed door, 3 in 6 

If alone and not in metal armor, surprise 4 in 6 

+1 to hit with any bow other than crossbow, and short/long 

sword 


RACIAL ABILITIES 

Infravision 60' 

Detect slope 75% 

Detect new construction 75% 

Detect shifting walls 67% 

Detect stonework traps 50% 

Determine depth underground 50% 

+1 vs. goblins, hobgoblins, ores or half-ores 

-4 to AC vs. ogres, ogre magi, trolls, giants, titans 


MAGIC ITEMS 

Broadsword *1 
Boots of Speed 


LANGUAGES 

Dwarven, gnome, goblin, kobold, ordsh 


EQUIPMENT 

Leather armor 

Watim Berelstane is the old man of the party, a dwarf who will traf 
fic with humans. Though beyond his physical prime, he adds ex 
perience and maturity to the party. He is an expert on locks, traps, 
machines, and devices, including magical ones. He relies upon his 
magic resistance in a jam. He is a willing team man, but will defin 
itely refuse a foolish or ineffective plan. He has high morale, but 
knows when to retreat. 


MAGIC ITEMS 

Longsword *i 
Shield +¦1 


LANGUAGES 

Elvish, gnome, halfiing, goblin, hobgoblin, orcish, gnoll 


EQUIPMENT 

Leather armor, short bow/quiver/20 arrows 


Porali Frehouse specializes in combat but prefers his bow to melee. 
His morale is fair: he is quick to suggest disengagement and retreat if 
the odds are not dearly favorable, as this is only common sense. He 
will disengage from melee and seek alternatives if the melee is not 
going his way. He recognizes the importance of his combat role, and 
performs reliably. 


18 



GRO MEKADET 

2nd level dwarf Fighter 


STRENGTH 18 (57) 

Hit Probability *2 
Damage Adjustment *3 

Weight Allowance 2500 maximum/2050 unencumbered 

Open Doors 1-3 

Bend Bars/Lift Gates 20% 

INTELLIGENCE 12 

Additional Languages 0 
WISDOM 10 (No adjustments) 

DEXTERITY 14 (No adjustments) 

CONSTITUTION 16 

Hit Point Adjustment *2 
System Shock Survival 95% 

Resurrection Survival 96% 

CHARISMA 13 

Maximum Number of Henchmen 5 


ARMOR CLASS 8 (leather armor) 

BASE MOVE 9" 

HIT POINTS 16 

Q00OOOOO 

0QO0GOO0 

BASE-TO-HFT AC: (including strength "to hit" bonus) 

10 9876543 

8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 



2 10-1 -2 -3 

16 17 18 19 20 20 


A 

20 


PATERNO STLINDHOUSE 

2nd level human Paladin 

STRENGTH 16 

Damage Adjustment *1 

Weight Allowance 1850 maximum fl 400 unencumbered 

Open Doors 1-3 

Bend Bars/Lift Gates 10% 

INTELLIGENCE 15 

Maximum Number of Languages 5 
WISDOM 14 (No adjustments) 

DEXTERITY 14 (No adjustments) 

CONSTITUTION 13 

System Shock Survival 85% 

Resurrection Survival 90% 

CHARISMA 17 

Loyalty Base *30% 

Reaction Adjustment + 3G% 

Maximum Number of Henchmen 10 


ARMOR CLASS 8 (leather armor)/7 shield (-1 with protection from 
etf(c) 

BASE MOVE 12' 

HIT POINTS 17 

OOpOQOOOQ 

QO0OOOOO 

BASE-TO-HIT AC: 



10 9 8 7 


6 5 4 3 2 1 


0 *1 -2 ~3 -4 


10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 IB 19 20 20 20 20 20 


19 



SAVING THROWS 

Paralyzation, Poison, or Death Magic 14/10 

Petrification or Polymorph 15 

Rod, Staff, or Wand 12 

Breath Weapon 17 

Spell 13 


WEAPONS 



Rate 

Range 

Bonus To Hit 

Damage.'Bonus 

Hammer *2 

1 

N/A 

-2 (strength)/ 

*2 (magic) 

1-4 * 6/1-4 * 5 

Sling 

1 

5/10/20 

+2 (strength) 

1-4 - 4/1-6 +4 


Proficiencies; Hammer, sling, battle ax, dagger 
Non-Proficiency Penalty: -2 


RACIAL ABILITIES 

fnfravision 60" 

Detect slope 75% 

Detect new construction 75% 

Detect shifting walls 67% 

Detect stonework traps 50% 

Determine depth underground 50% 

*1 vs. goblins, hobgoblins, ores or half-ores 
-4 to AC vs. ogres, ogre magi, trolls, giants, titans 


MAGIC ITEMS 

Hammer *2 


LANGUAGES 

Dwarvish, gnome, goblin, kobold, orcish 


EQUIPMENT 

Leather armor, backpack, sling and 10 bullets, 10 days' rations 


Gro Mekadet is a combat specialist-very strong and very tough. 
He is fierce and fearless to a fault. His morale is very high. He is 
young, impatient, and self-confident, but he follows orders. He 
doesn't stop to reckon the odds when he gets a shot at an opponent. 
Gro is headstrong with a low estimate of weedy humans and a 
superstitious distrust of magic, Gro comes from a very ferocious 
dan of dwarves and knows little beyond the martial arts. 


SAVING THROWS 

Paralyzation, Poison, or Death Magic 11 
Petrification or Polymorph 12 
Rod, Staff, or Wand 13 
Breath Weapon 14 
Spell 14 


WEAPONS 

Rate Range Bonus To Hit Damage'Bonus 

Longsword +2 1 N/A +1 (magic) 1-8+2/1-12+2 

Light crossbow 1 6/12/18 N/A 1-4/1-4 

Proficiencies: Longsword, light crossbow, dagger 
Non-Proficiency Penalty: -2 


PALADIN ABILITIES 

Detect evil 60' 

Cure disease once per week 

Protection from evil 10' radius 

Lay on hands to cure wounds, 4 points/day 

Immune to disease 


MAGIC ITEMS 

Longsword +1, Luck Blade (unknown if wishes remain, gives 
+1 to saving throws) 


LANGUAGES 

Dwarven, elven, halfling, goblin 


EQUIPMENT 

Leather armor, shield, light crossbow, case/30 quarrels 


Faterno Stlindhouse specializes in leadership, planning, organiza 
tion, and command decisions. He is deliberate and careful, highly 
concerned for the welfare of each party member. He is responsible 
and orderly. His morale is very high. He intends to be a role model 
as an adventurer, teaching morals through actions rather than 
words. He has tactical and strategic talent and well-bred social 
skills. 


20 



Castanamir's 

Laboratories and Workrooms 


Use DM Map 2: Laboratories 
and Workrooms 

The Setting 

The rooms, lighting, etc. are similar in gen 
eral design to the living quarters. Access to 
the living quarters is in Room HIA and the 
exit to the surface in Room U1B. 

Encounter Key 

L THE LIBRARY 


A black opening is in each of the four 
walls. The room is filled with book 
shelves, and in the center is a large table 
and straight-backed chair. A tall grey- 
haired man wearing long robes covered 
with magical writing is standing directly 
behind the chair. He is silent and motion- 
less. On the table are several stacks of 
manuscript paper held down with paper 
weights and ample scribe's supplies 
neatly arranged on a small stand next to 
the chair. 


One section of the room contains well-used 
general reference materials covering every 
thing from astronomy to zoology. Another 
section contains foreign language books, 
numerous huge dictionaries, and other 
translation aids. One quarter of the library 
is devoted to texts and treatises on magic. 
There is a large cabinet containing numer 
ous scrolls. On a shelf right next to the table 
is a collection of standard and traveling 
spell books* 

Bradvig simulacrum: AC10; MV 12; HD4; 
hp 8; AL ?; #AT 1; Dmg 1-4; ST 12; Intel 
ligent* 

1st Level spells: sleep {x2) 

2nd Level spells: stinking cloud , web 

Bradvig was a chaotic evil. lOth-level. rene 
gade mage brought to justice with Cas- 
tanamir's help. Castanamir hated to see his 
fine mind go to waste, and it fed his ego to 
keep a simulacrum of the mage as a com 
mon library assistant. The simulacrum has a 
much-impaired intelligence, and functions 
only as a 4th-Ievel magic-user He is still 
knowledgeable about higher levels of 
magk, but there are great and critical gaps 
in what he recalls. In combat Bradvig 


throws his spells, then melees berserkly with 
his ornamental dagger Bradvig answers 
only to his name; other commands given 
him by Castanamir were: 

1, '"Stay here until I tell you otherwise." 

2, "Don't touch anything unless 1 tell you 
otherwise." 

3, "Keep your mouth shut unless I tell 
you otherwise 

4, "Don't throw any spells unless I tell 
you to" 

5, "If something goes wrong, you may 
defend yourself or the library in any way 
you can, as long as you don't kill anybody 
or damage my collection " 

As with all simulacra, Bradvig is com 
pletely under Castanamir s orders; no other 
may command him. He will interpret com 
mand 5 to mean that no one may touch any 
thing in the library, and that any attempt to 
touch him or move him is an attack. He will 
not leave the library. The party will proba 
bly have to kill or incapacitate him. 

Unfortunately, the bulk of Castanamir's 
collection of scrolls, manuscripts, and 
tomes is located in his various other resi 
dences. The titles here are quite valuable, 
nonetheless. The spell books are priceless, 
although they are well-protected against 
theft or tampering. None of the spell books 
have any labels or identifying marks on the 
outside. They all have tiny catalog serial 
numbers written on the outside spines* but 
the writing is so minute that a PC must spec 
ify that he is looking for catalog numbers 
before he can see them. The notes on the 
table deal with summoning gingwatzim, the 
theory and techniques. One glass paper 
weight is a magical device that stores Rary's 
mnemonic enhancer (2 charges)* The com 
mand word "Abrouzek" is etched into the 
glass. The other paperweights are 
unmarked. 

Additional spell books were shelved close 
to the floor. Now most of them are lying in 
ashes. The books were booby-trapped, and 
each dissolved into flame as it was touched. 
Hidden among the ashes, however, is one 
incompletely destroyed spell book which 
contains six 2nd-leve] spells and three 3rd- 
level spells, at least four of which are unfa 
miliar to the adventurers. You should 
choose the spells to meet the needs of the 
PCs and your campaign. 

Still on the shelf are four more fire 
trapped spell books. Each character that 
touches a spell book receives id8*6 points of 



fire damage, and the book instantly dis 
solves in flame. 

Certain other spell books are on high 
shelves near the table. These are the spell 
books of evil mages. Aside from the danger 
of the possible curses and traps on these vol 
umes, the evil spells they contain are of little 
use. If any character opens any of the spell 
books from the top three shelves, he 
receives an explosive runes blast for 6d4+6 
damage, A magic-user has a 5% per level 
chance of detection, while a thief has a 5% 
chance. A saving throw vs. magic allows 
half damage. If the characters are smart 
enough to check the library catalogue first, 
the entries will clearly indicate that these 
books still have dangerous traps on them. 

Castanamir's own spell books can be 
reached from the chair. There is one spell 
book for each of the nine levels of conven 
tional spells he knows, along with a com 
plete set of traveling spell books containing 
the Identical information and four more 
books devoted to his own research. Each 
book has a fire trap. Anyone touching one 
takes ld8*6 damage, and the book dissolves 
in flames. 

Also right at hand is Castanamir's per 
sonal library catalog-a six-volume manu 
script divided into six subject areas: general 
reference, magical reference, summoning 
references, magic spell books, scrolls and 
notes (older notes and materiaLs from other 
mages-no spells), and manuscripts (Cas- 
t an amirs own notes on magic spells}* The 
manuscript section contains a description of 
gingwatzim and the general operating prin 
ciples of the magic portals, It takes a charac 
ter of 20 intelligence several hours to figure 
out the general principles of the manuscripts 
regarding gingwatzim and magic portals, 
and a magic-user would despair of under 
standing the details Ln a lifetime. Once a 
character has spent the required time, 
explain the general nature of the enchanted 
portals and gingwatzim, but be vague 
because the concepts are advanced far 
beyond the PCs' understanding. 

Each entry in the catalog briefly describes 
the background of the text, scroll, or manu 
script, the author or original owner, and the 
contents of the item* An entry clearly states 
whether there are traps on the material. For 
example, spell books are listed as trapped. 
Castanamir's handwriting is crabbed and 
tiny, and the codes on the texts, books, 
scrolls and manuscripts are hard to read. 
Referencing and deciphering an entry takes 
5-10 minutes, and finding the cited material 


21 





takes another 5 minutes. The catalog reveals 
that 90% of the books, scrolls, and manu 
scripts are only moderately valuable. Nine 
hundred of the volumes are worth about 
one gp per volume. Their encumbrance is 10 
times their gp value, and it is impractical to 
remove them for monetary value alone. The 
remaining 10% of the library consists of 
valuable references on conjuration, provid 
ing a complete research library For any 
magic-user spells listed as "conjurations" in 
the Players Handbook. Though most of the 
spells are far beyond the current capabilities 
of the PCs, the references could command 
an excellent price from the Magician's 
Guild-30 gp per volume for 100 volumes. 

II. CHAPEL 


This is a circular room about 16 feet 
across with a pool in I he center about 8 
feet across. There are four black open 
ings at 90 degrees, 180 degrees, 270 
degrees, and 360 degrees around the cir 
cumference of the room. Around the 
pool is a low stone wall. 

Filling the pool is a dear, water-like 
liquid and at the bottom is an incredible 
wealth of coins in all metals and denomi 
nations. and a number of other items. 
Intermixed are human bones, 


Naranzim: AC insubstantial; MV 24: HD 
12; hp 50; AL N; #ATspecial; 5A illusion 
magic; SD see below. 

Touching the water or tampering with the 
contents in any way will call the naranzim, 
who will appear from the pool as a cloud of 
orange light having a head but only two 
indistinct eyes of a deep, fiery orange. It is 
not affected by any physical weapons, mag 
ical or not . He can be touched only by magic 
missile or similar spells. He was bound here 
by Castanamir for service of a thousand 
years but promised that he would be paid 
for answers to any questions. Castanamir 
also answered the creature's questions for 
similar prices. As a result the naranzim is 
satisfied and reasonably pleasant. It can 
answer most questions that the party asks, 
but honestly admits when it doesn't know 
the answer and refunds the fee. The naran 
zim demands payment in advance-no 
information on credit. It is an absolute mas 
ter of illusion. Though it can neither be 
harmed nor cause real injury (the bones in 
the pool are for show), it can make a charac 
ter think he is a poodle and make him look 


like one, It derives no benefit from injuring 
anyone and hopes the party will come to its 
senses and pay a handsome fee for informa 
tion. It has no sense of humor about theft, 
having worked for his treasures, and it pun 
ishes thieves, l Inder no circumstances will it 
permit anything to be taken from the pool. 

Initially the naranzim says, T will answer 
your questions If you pay me well. 1 will kill 
you if you do not," For each question the 
party asks, the creature asks for payment 
beforehand. For example, if the party says, 
"What is 'well paid 4 to you? " the naranzim 
replies, "What will you pay me for that 
answer?" It answers the following without 
charge; If the party asks for estimates of 
prices, the creature tells them an estimate 
costs 1000 gp or a magical item. If asked 
what currency it accepts, it tells them gold, 
silver, copper, platinum, magical items, 
experience levels, and their lives* 

Its only attack is illusion. However, since 
the party cannot dispel the illusion, it can be 
dangerous. The naranzim warns the party 
by turning someone into a poodle; if 
pressed, it gives someone the illusion of 
blindness. If the party persists in refusing to 
pay in attacking the creature, or in trying to 
steal from the pool, it will strike each char 
acter with an illusionary mattock, knocking 
him unconscious. When the party members 
return to consciousness, the naranzim is 
gone, but it may be called again by touching 
the pool, and this time it will be in no mood 
for funny business, it perceives everything 
as through a gem of true sight (no invisible 
sneaking) and, to prevent folks from run 
ning away with the treasures, it can make 
the portals seem to disappear. 

Below is a sample list of questions, 
answers, and prices suggestive of the naran 
zim s personality, scope of knowledge, style 
of response, and taste in riches. 

1* "How can we get out of here?" (4000 gp, 4 
magical items, or an experience level) 
"Use the amulet of planes or the rear exit, 
both located in Castanamir's rest area " 

2. "Where is this rest area?" {2000 gp or 2 
magical items) "It is off the hallway with 
the mirror' If the characters come back 
and complain that they couldn't find any 
room off that hall, the naranzim points 
out that they asked where It was, not 
how to find it. The secret door and wiz 
ard lock information they need costs 
1000 gp or one magical item each. 

3* "Where is Castanamir?" (It is not sure, 
but they can buy everything he knows 




about it for 1000 gp or one magical item.) 
"I think he's dead, or in the process of 
dying. He may have escaped to some 
plane I cannot perceive. Something tells 
me that he is gone for a long time, but I 
would hesitate to say forever." 

4. "How can we safely leave the island?" 
(2000 gp or two magical items) 'There 
are many ways* but an answer in your 
price range is to wait until a ship sails by, 
light a signal fire, and swim out to meet 
the ship, warning it to stay 2000 feet 
from shore." If the party is so unimagina 
tive as to need help figuring out how to 
buoy themselves up, for another 1000 gp 
or a magical item it will tell you to make 
water wings from wineskins available in 
the kitchen. 

5. "What is the most valuable thing on this 
island?" (8000 gp, 8 magical items, or 
two experience levels) "Assuming that 
you are more interested in loot than in 
your safety, 1 believe Castanamir's 
library is the greatest treasure." 

Requests for command words to magical 
items* abilities of unknown magical items, 
and warnings about dangers or guards in a 
specific room cost 1000 gp or a magical item. 
A list of the important treasures in any given 
room costs 2000 gp or 2 magical items,You 
must price other services during play. Too 
expensive is better than too cheap; buying 
information rather than working for it 
defeats the purpose of the game. 

The naranzim is not a nitpicker, and it 
believes in giving a customer his money's 
worth, but some questions can be more use 
ful than others. It knows practically every 
thing about Castanamir's home, but very 
little about his past or personal life, The 
creature's expertise is in the study of the 
ethereal planes, the subject Castanamir was 
investigating when he bound the naranzim 
here. Any information you feel the PCs 
should not have should be a weak spot in 
the creature's knowledge. It cheerfully 
admits ignorance of unimportant matters. 

Following is an inventory of items and 
treasure in the pool: splint mail +2, chain 
mail *2 , shield +1, ring of protection +2 f war 
hammer *2, boots of elvenkind f longsword 
*1, bracers of defense (AC 6), one arrow *1 , 
wand of fireballs (4 charges), potion of heal 
ing , potion of extra healing, potion of cl air- 
audience, spear *1 f scroll of raise dead. 
potion of speed , scroll of blindness and blur. 
2 javelins of piercing, scroll of hold portal 
and suggestion, 2500 gp, 85,000 cp, 2000 ep, 
and 1000 sp. 


22 



BSA- 

IIIA. REST AREA HALLWAY 


This seems to be a room or hall with a 
single distinctive feature: a floor-to- 
ceiling mirror. There are black openings 
visible on three walls. The corridor 
seems to turn a comer where the mirror 
is hung. Something seems to be moving 
there. 


Giant Wolverine: AC 4; HD 2*4: hp 14; MV 
15: #AT 1; AL N: Dmg 1-6; ST 16. 

The giant wolverine sneaks up the corridor 
and attacks the party. It is a pakim in ani 
mate form, and it will fight to the death. 
When killed, it disappears into thin air. Oth 
erwise, it does not leave this hall. If left 
alive, i t attacks anyone who en ters the room 
at any time. 

If the PCs choose to go back to Room 7 in 
the living quarters, they do it through the 
opening in the floor. They are free to come 
and go between Room 7 and Room III at 
will. 

The mirror is ordinary. There is a secret 
door in the south wall which is wizard 
locked. The party may deduce the magical 
lock from the absence of a physical lock and 
with the use of detect magic. A knock spell 
will permit entry. 

ms. REST AREA BEDROOM 

Flesh Golem: AC 9: MV 8; HD 9; hp 40; AL 
N; #AT 2; D2-16/2-16; SD damaged 
only by magical weapons; ST 11; 7 V 2 
feet tall; deactivated by darkness. 

The flesh golem behind the secret door is a 
guard instructed to keep intruders out. The 
golem is activated whenever the door is 
opened. Because the creature was getting 
old and unreliable, Castanamir added a 
safety feature: total darkness deactivates it. 
Normally the golem stands directly in the 
doorway to prevent access. If the party 
melees with it, the golem goes berserk and 
runs out into the hall and attacks anything 
in sight. It will not go through a magic por 
tal. 

Once the party manages to get past the 
secret door and golem, they find that the 
bedroom is littered with piles of dusty 
junk-memorabilia of the Goblin Wars and 
the good old days when Castanamir was a 
respected hero. On one wall is a single high 
shelf with very old books. These are Cas- 
tanamir's journals-untouched for 150 
years. They are worth 2000 gp to a sage. 


There is no ordinary bed. Castanamir rested 
with a waist belt of flying te thered to a pole 
in the middle of the room. The command 
word is not inscribed on the belt; the word is 
'Tromofantazek." The belt has 54 charges. 
The belt is a possible resource for escape. 
There are a number of chests full of elegant 
but unused clothes. A few well-worn, dirty 
garments lie scattered here and there. On 
the floor near the normal-looking door in 
the southeast comer is a small sack of 1000 
ep, a small bag of perfect gems worth 1000 
gp, and an amulet of the planes . These were 
the wizard's emergency escape cache. Dis 
covering the amulet's command word 
("Bensonmenel") will require some serious 
research and contacting higher planes. 
However, the naranzim in Room II may be 
paid to reveal it. 

The normal-looking door to the southeast 
is the rear exit. If the PCs open this door 
they find themselves looking out on pound 
ing surf and a rocky shoreline. The door is a 
one-way teleport to a large rock on the very 
edge of the island. Surf splashes on the plane 
of the door, but no water comes in-a hint 
that the door is one-way only This is the 
only exit from Castanamir's residence. If 
anyone exits without proper procedures 
known only to Castanamir, the entrance 
portal on the islands surface ceases func 
tioning, although the ground continues to 
emanate a magical aura. 

IV. THE EYES OF SHADRAKIR 

When a character first enters this room, 
secretly make his saving roll against spells. 
If he fails, tell him he is falling. This is to 
account for a panic reaction to the disorient 
ing experience of the room. Thereafter pro 
ceed to read the fallowing to him. If he 
makes the save, he has no disorientation 
and you should simply read the description. 


Four black openings appear to hang in 
mid-air around a stone tower. You, too, 
are standing in mid-air, and the top of 
the tower is twenty feet above you. Its 
base is a broad rocky platform 40 feet 
below. The tower stands on a 2000-foot- 
high ridge rising out of an ocean of mist. 
The sides of the ridge are sheer cliffs. The 
air tastes funny and you are short of 
breath. The sky is an unusually deep 
blue, and two small suns hover above 
the horizon. 


23 


-A&fl 

As you look more closely you perceive, 
stretching all the way across the room, a 
solid but transparent floor, and a transpar 
ent but solid circular wall linking the four 
black openings. 

PCs can cross the floor to the tower. 
Inside the tower is a spiral stair that can be 
descended or climbed. It is pitch dark but 
torches or other lights may be used. The 
walls of the tower feel substantial but it has 
no windows or doors, At its top is a trap 
door which opens onto a flat platform 
about twenty feet in diameter. Most of this 
area is taken up by a nest containing three 
eggs about six inches in diameter and an 
assortment of odds and ends, including col 
orful stones and other natural objects and 
an embroidered silk bag with 70 gp, 4 gems 
(100 gp each), a mangled jeweled breast 
plate decorated with cheap gems (300 gp), 
and a figurine of an ebony fly* This figurine 
of wondrous power is cursed, and if it is 
moved, the cursed person loses sight and 
speech until the fly is returned. The com 
mand word for the figurine is "MacKolL" 

Hippogriffs [2]; AC 5; MV 18/36; HD 3*3; 
hp 22; AL N; #AT 3; D I-6/1-6/1-10. 

The hippogriffs are soaring at a great 
height. They sense any meddling with their 
nest and arrive in two rounds. They fight 
until slain or until the PCs disappear back 
into the tower. 

At the bottom of the tower is a small 
chamber about 30 feet in diameter. The 
chamber is empty except for an egg-shaped, 
translucent object about 10 feet long. Barely 
visible inside this egg is the figure of a sor 
cerer. The figure wears dark-colored robes 
and conical hat and has a beard and great 
mane of grey hair. He lies motionless with 
eyes open, apparently fixed in the substance 
of the egg. Although there is no physical 
due that the eyes or any part of the figure is 
alive and moving, it gives people a feeling of 
being watched. This is the seer Shadrakir, a 
powerful mage who has placed himself in 
suspended animation to await the end of the 
universe. The egg detects as magical and 
good but cannot be damaged or moved. 

The party may mistake Shadrakir for 
Castanamir the Mad. Nothing bul very 
powerful magic will enable them to question 
him, though the naranzim in Room II can 
identify him. If the party establishes com 
munication with Shadrakir through some 
means such as limited wish , he answers their 
questions with enigmatic riddles about 
future kings and the fall of empires. ("Fire 
and plague will come in a month of moon- 







v,"ite 


Jess nights/' or Two brothers will unite four 
great nations; the one shall slay the other, 
and the four nations will fall in a single 
hour") 

Shadrakir has no idea where Castanamir 
went, but he admits that he misses the old 
mages visits. 


with framed parchments and pictures of 
all descriptions. 

The cabinets contain various 
handsomely-designed and richly- 
decorated objects, including inlaid 
boxes, gaudy belts, ceremonial robes 
and sashes, and other less familiar items. 
The art treasures include statues, sculp 
ture, paintings, musical instruments, 
pottery, glassware, exotic woven and 
crafted materials and fabrics, rugs, and 
tapestries, all heaped and jumbled as in a 
grandmother's attic. Some of the tapes 
tries and rugs have been gathered 
together to form a makeshift sleeping 
pad and blankets. The walls are covered 
with what appear to be illuminated cop 
ies of ballads, testimonials, citations 
from the Magician's Guild and the Coun 


cil of Twelve, and other official-looking 
items dealing with Castanamir's tenure 
as Master of Magicians in the Magician's 
Guild, 

This is Castanamir's trophy room. In 
the chests are original correspondence, 
papers and notes from a happier era, The 
chests have sat unopened and gathering 
dust for years. The decorated objects and 
art treasures are worth a total of 6000 gp, 
with an encumbrance of 60,000 gp. 

An old man in robes is bending down 
in front of one of the chests. A large crow 
stands on the floor next to him. There are 
several open chests near him and papers 
stacked helter-skelter, 


V TROPHY ROOM 


There are four black openings on the 
walls of the room. One half of the room 
is devoted to numerous wood-and-glass 
cabinets filled with various items. The 
other half of the room contains art trea 
sures: paintings; statues: objects 
wrought in gold, silver, and other pre 
cious metals; and a large number of 
stacked chests. The walls are covered 












































BS* 


When the party enters, the old man leaps 
in fear and surprise, and looks as though he 
is about to prepare a spell, Unless the party 
can prevent it by interrupting the spell, the 
old man becomes invisible in the first 
round. He screams in a high shaky voice, 
"Leave me alone, or I'll roast the lot of you," 

Arriflex Mordel; magic-user/6th level. AC 
7; MV 12} HD 6; hp 21; AL LE; #AT 1; 
Dmg 1-4; ST 10; wears bracers of defense 
(AC 7) and carries a dagger +1, and a staff 
*3 {used at -5 proficiency penalty). The 
crow is his familiar (AC 7; hp 3; confers 
excellent vision) which always either 
rides on Arriflexs shoulder or hops along 
behind him, Arriflex is blind, 

First level spells: read magic (Cls, DR12r); 
identify (Cls, DR6s); unseen servant 
(Cls DR120; magic missile (Cls, R12, 3 
missiles). 

Second level spells: invisibility (C2s); 
stinking cloud (C2s, R3, DR6r, 2x2x2 
cloud). 

Third level spells: monster summoning I 
{C3s, R3, DR8r, appear in 3 rounds, 5 
ores; AC 6; hp 7. 6, 5, 8, 2; D 1-6); 
tongues {C3s, DR6r, 6* circle). 

The magical staff pretends to be inani 
mate; it listens but will not speak and is 
really an eoluzlm in its bound form. It is 
quite intelligent, but vicious in tempera- 
ment and ignorant of affairs on this plane. It 
has no knowledge that it has not overheard 
in Room 7 or in its recent travels with 
Arriflex. In campaign play it can become an 
inquisitive and unpleasant conversationalist 
if it falls into a characters hands. It might 
easily be mistaken for an intelligent magical 
staff of great power by an inexperienced 
adventurer though its only real magical vir 
tue is as a melee weapon. 

When the party enters, Arriflex is busy 
reading through the correspondence by 
using the eyes of his crow familiar. Arriflex 
is seeking some clue to a way out, and he 
has been reduced to searching through Cas- 
tanamir's papers, hoping to find notes on 
the time period when the rooms were 
designed and constructed. For more than a 
month he has been sleeping and working in 
this room and in the library, making occa 
sional forays into the kitchen for provi 
sions. Surprised by the party, Arriflex is 
badly frightened, but he recovers quickly 
and attempts to masquerade as Castanamir, 
Pretending to be suffering from partial 
amnesia and senility, he starts off by threat 
ening the party then cautiously inquiring 


about how they got here. Then he suddenly 
and quietly asks the party "Say, I don't sup 
pose you know how to get out of here?" At 
this point he goes back to pawing through 
the old papers frantically, explaining that he 
seems to have forgotten something, but that 
he can't remember what it is. Thereafter he 
will frequently repeat himself, ramble on, 
and sputter indignantly about intruders in 
his home. At this point Arriflex is carefully 
feeling out the party's reaction to him. If the 
party offers to help him find the way out r he 
will immediately offer to richly reward 
them for their assistance. 

Play Arriflex for laughs, because that is 
his best chance to catch the PCs off guard. 
He tries to appeal to the generous nature of 
the lawful good characters, appearing as a 
helpless old man desperately in need of 
assistance. Since he hasn't the appropriate 
knowledge of the place to successfully 
impersonate Castanamir, he assertively 
delivers obvious nonsense in response to 
questions that might reveal gaps in his 
knowledge. For example, if asked where he 
gets the food he eats, he will say, "Oh. of 
course. The kitchen. Right over here,"' and 
he will walk off toward the pile of art trea 
sures and begin to industriously search 
through them for the kitchen. As he stum 
bles about through the room, he sooner or 
later reveals the fact that he is blind, but he 
says its unimportant, then falls over some 
thing, Hell explain that he is using the 
crows eyes to see, though the crow keeps 
ignoring his commands and going to sleep. 
If the party asks him to throw spells, he will 
sheepishly admit that he seems to have for 
gotten them all. If the party points out that 
he made himself invisible, he yelps with glee 
and bounces around the room shouting, "1 
AM a magician! I AM a magician!" But he 
can t seem to remember how he did it. 

The alert party may see through Arrif lex's 
deception. The naranzim in Room II could 
unmask his imposture. A know alignment 
shows he's evil. If Arriflex is unmasked, he 
turns invisible and dashes through a portal, 
thereafter shadowing the party in case they 
tmd a way out. If ambushing a party mem 
ber Is in his interest, he Hoes it cheerfully. 
Arriflexs best bet, however, is to keep the 
party alive so that they can lead him to a 
way out. Once he is confident that he knows 
the way out, he tries an all-out attack to 
obtain a means of escape, {such as the amu 
let of the planes), to steal valuable treasures, 
and to eliminate anyone with knowledge of 
Castanamir's treasure-filled dwelling. 


AM 


VIA* ALCHEMICAL LAB HALLWAY 


There are four black openings and a sim 
ple wooden door in this small hallway. 
The wooden door is locked, though it 
does not seem very strong. 


The lock may be opened magically or 
picked by a thief, or the door may be broken 
down in one turn. Immediately inside the 
door is a ghoul. 

Ghoul: AC6; MV 9; HD 3*6; hp 18: AL N: 
#AT 1; Dmg2-8; SD +1 weapon to hit: ST 
14, 

Roll initiative. If the ghoul wins, it does 
nothing for 3 rounds. If it is attacked, it 
attacks berserkly. Otherwise, afLer3 rounds 
of inactivity it will come to life and try to 
push characters out of the room. If the char 
acters resist, it will attack berserkly. 

Since the ghoul" is not really undead, it 
cannot be turned and disappears when it is 
killed. It does not paralyze, but you may 
fake saving rolls to avoid giving dues about 
its nature. PCs should receive no explana 
tion of this unusual situation. This creature 
was once a docile lab assistant. It really 
wants the PCs to leave for their own safety. 

VIB* ALCHEMICAL LAB 


The room contains two workbenches, a 
pair of small ovens, many alembics with 
glass tubing intertwining and curling 
around flasks, dishes, basins, jugs, 
retorts, sensitive measuring devices, 
scales, mortars and pestles, and other 
strange devicesand containers. One wall 
is covered with shelves of small glass and 
crockery jars and bottles. Along the 
floor under these shelves are larger stor 
age bins. A long shelf near one work 
bench bears a number of bound books. 
There are several cabinets arranged near 
the workbenches. One cabinet contains 
several hundred scroll cases. Another 
cabinet contains a number of potion bot 
tles, some full, some empty. 


The small bottles and jars on the shelves 
contain spell components for familiar spells 
and are marked almost illegibly in Cas 
tanamir s crabbed script. In addition to 
familiar components, there are many unfa 
miliar substances and materials. The large 
storage bins contain bulk amounts of more 
frequently used materials. The bound books 


25 




B9A- 

are reference works on alchemy and various 
notes on alchemical experiments- 
recognizable as quite valuable by any 
magic-user (10 tomes, 100 gp encumbrance, 
1000 gp value). The scrolls in the cabinet are 
references in alchemy <100 gp encumbrance, 
100 gp value). No spell scrolls are found 
here. 

One small rack on the door of the potions 
cabinet contains the potions identified in 
Castanamirs scribble as given below. The 
information in parenthesis is no! marked on 
the containers. None of the bottles are 
sealed with wax, but none has spoiled. 

1. AmmaJ Control (horse) 

2. No label (Dinrintiition) 

3. No label (ESP) 

4. No label {Extra Healing) 

5. Fire Resistance 

6. Heating 

7. Longevity 

In the back of the potion cabinet is a trav 
eling case covered with dust. Its bottles are 
dearly labeled. The wax seals have cracked 
and dried with age-a clue to a magic-user 
that the contents may have spoiled, if any 
other character dass inspects the bottles, the 
dust is the only hint that the potions may be 
old and dangerous. On the list below, any 
potion marked with an asterisk has spoiled 
and acts as a poison potion. If a magic-user 
sniffs #3 or #4, he will know they are 
spoiled. The others smell all right, 

1. Healing 

2. Healing 

3. Extra Healing * 

4. Extra Healing* 

5. Horse Control* 

6. Speed* 

7. Water Breathing* 

As this is an alchemical lab, a magician 
should be allowed to figure it out himself; 
however, if he has looked at the reference 
books and still doesn't know, give him 
clues. Anyone other than a magic-user 
should find the references and scrolls incom 
prehensible. 

A large number of spell components and 
potion ingredients are also stored here, 
identifiable only by a mage, and then only 
up to the level of his current spell knowl 
edge. Investigating the known material spell 
components is relatively safe for a magic- 
user, but any other character who investi 
gates the contents of any of the flasks, 
beakers, jars, or storage bins must make an 
intelligence check (roll his intelligence or 
under on ld20) to avoid making a saving 
roll against poison. If he fails both saves, he 
immediately takes 4d4 damage and begins 


to cough uncontrollably. His skin turns blu 
ish and waxy in about one minute, and he 
begins to cough blood in ten minutes. He 
gets a second roll against poison at this 
point. If he fails, he dies; if he succeeds, he 
has only another ten minutes before he must 
make one more saving roll at -4 to his roll. If 
he saves, he falls unconscious, but he will 
live. If he fails, he dies. Determine the value 
and nature of the spell components in 
accordance with your campaign needs. 

VILA, GOLEM LAB HALLWAY 


There are four black openings and a sin 
gle, unlocked, normal door on the walls 
of this tiny room. 


VIIB. GOLEM LAB ANTEROOM 


This is a small anteroom. A heavily rein 
forced door leads out of this anteroom 
into another, larger room visible through 
view slits. In the larger room can be seen 
a metal shop with a forge and metal 
working tools. There are a number of 
shapes with thick cloth covers draped 
over them in the back of the room. 


VIIC GOLEM LAB 


On a workbench in this room are a 
couple of greasy frequently handled 
books on golem design and repair. On 
another bench there are several tiny 
scale-model golems of iron, stone, and 
steel-some with normal humanoid 
form, some with four legs, some with no 
legs, some that look like indistinct metal 
lumps. Three of these humanoid models 
are bending over and touching their toes 
again and again. 


Castanamir was experimenting with using 
gingwatzim to power golems. AH of the 
functional models are powered by tim. The 
three that are touching their toes are being 
wear-tested. They are moving smoothly 
and quickly. Among the models are found 
replicas of the golems in Room 1 and Room 
3 . 

Under the doth covers are a number of 
half-finished golem projects. Unfortunately 
for the party there are also two completed 
and fully operational quarter-size models of 
iron golems called iron men. They are acti- 


AM 


vated by light, and as soon as the covers are 
removed, the golems come to life and 
attack. They will not travel through the 
magic portals. They are considerably less 
powerful than full-scale iron golems, but 
they are also distinctly faster. The only way 
they can be deactivated is by putting them 
back into darkness. They become peaceable 
if covered with magical or ordinary dark 
ness. Dropping the cover back on will be 
sufficient only if it is done instantly and 
deliberately during the round that the golem 
is activated. Thereafter a character must roll 
his dexterity or less on ld20 to successfully 
enshroud the golem. Its poisonous cloud 
will be released in the second round and 
every seventh round thereafter. Since the 
golem are almost invulnerable to the PCs, it 
would be foolish to fight them. They are 
enormously heavy; a total of 120 strength 
points is necessary to lift or move one. 

Iron Men [2j: AC 3; MV 12: HD 4: hp 20; 
AL N; #AT 1; Dmg 1-10; SA poisonous 
doud l*x1/xl* once every 7 rounds, 1- 
6 poison damage; SD can t be hit by less 
than *3 weapons; only affected by elec 
trical magic attacks; ST 16; 3 feet talk 

If the party runs instantly and without hesi 
tation, they are able to beat the golem to the 
door. If some member of the party is encum 
bered with armor or treasure, he might not 
make it. Once PCs get to the door, they may 
slam it in the golem's face. It takes the golem 
20 rounds to smash through the reinforced 
door and 3 rounds to smash through the 
norma! door. It then stops in the center of 
the hallway, It does not leave this hall, but it 
attacks anything that enters it. 

VHL ENCHANTMENT LAB 


On each of the room's four walls is a 
black opening. In the center of the room 
is a small table, a small book stand with 
books, and a metal brazier about 5 feet in 
diameter that is scorched and pitted. At 
one side of the table is a cot. In one cor 
ner of the room is a table with a wand, a 
ring, and a glass sphere lying on cush 
ioned trays. Along the walls are 30 dif 
ferent pieces of fabric woven with metal 
thread in many unfamiliar colors and 
alloys. Each is from one to four feet 
square, and each shows signs of exposure 
to great heat. Around the walls of the 
room are hung at eye level dozens of 
shallow metal bowls marked with magi 
cal inscriptions. 


26 





6SA- 

The wand has a command word "Muforche- 
zek" written on it. It stores a single repulsion 
spell. The ring has the command word 
"Isokgrotezek" on it; it stores one monster 
summoning I spell. The glass sphere has one 
command word and three modifiers written 
on it* "Karabershtizek" activates one Oti- 
luke's freezing sphere spell. The user must 
then select the desired specific effect by 
using a modifier command word. "Meak" 
selects a globe of matter at absolute zero 
which freezes available water 6 inches deep 
over an area of 1800 square feet* "Feke" 
selects a thin ray of cold for 72 points of 
damage over a distance of 180 feet (save 
negates damage). Anything along the path 
of this one-foot-wide ray suffers the effects 
of the damage, J 'Keak" creates a sling-stone 
sized globe which shatters on impact, doing 
6d4 damage to all creatures within a 10 foot 
radius (half damage if save). If not used 
within 18 rounds of activation, the globe 
automatically explodes, doing 72 points of 
damage, Castanamir did not do the perma 
nency spells on these, so they are all one-use 
items* 

The books contain copies of many of Cas- 
tanamtr's spells, but they will burst into 
flame if touched* delivering ld8-6 magical 
fire damage to the victim* The fabrics on the 
wall were used in conjunction with the 
bowls to fix a dweomer within an object. 
The bowls themselves were an unsuccessful 
experiment in enchanting a group of small 
objects simultaneously that Castamir aban 
doned. The bowls will not detect as magic. 
The cloths detect as magic, but they are used 
to store and imprint magic power on items 
in a method that only Castanamir truly 
understood. Even the naranzim in Room II 
doesn't know how they are used. 

There is a permanent unseen servant in 
the room standing at the table, waiting for 
Castanamir^ directions* If the characters 
walk into the room and investigate the 
table, they bump into its invisible figure. 
Only a defect invisible spell will reveal the 
true nature of the invisible figure. Of course 
the unseen servant is unintelligent and does 
not respond to anyone but Castanamir. 

IX, SUMMONING LAB 


A black opening is on each of the four 
walls* In this room are two shelves, one 
containing dozens of texts on conjura 
tion and another that stores about 35 
scroll tubes. Under the shelves are a 
workbench and a high stool. On one side 


A&fl 


of the room four large metal spheres 
float in midair. A small cabinet with a 
transparent door is in one comer. 

The spheres are coated with some 
extremely slippery material. In each can 
be seen the seams of a door with no visi 
ble handle. The door to one sphere is 
open. Notes on summoning lie in disor 
ganized stacks on the workbench, along 
with several empty component jars, an 
unmarked parchment, an open, driedout 
inkwell, and a quill* There are signs of a 
struggle; the stool is tipped over and 
there are papers on the floor. The trans 
parent door to the cabinet reveals a dag 
ger and two oval-shaped charms on 
silver chains. 


Free-Form Pakim [3]; AC 0; MV 16; HD 

2d+4; hp 12; AL N; #AT 1; Dmg special, 

SD *1 weapon to hit; ST 16* 

Here Castanamir conjured the gingwatzim. 
Each of the three unopened spheres contains 
a pakim. The spheres detect as magic* The 
pakim, if released from the sphere, rushes to 
attack the nearest character and drain 
strength from him. If it is successful, the 
character is paralyzed and loses 3 points of 
strength per melee round until his strength 
falls to zero and he loses consciousness* In 
addition, the pakim has a 10% chance to 
possess any character {except a paladin or 
other magically-protected character) per 
round of strength drain, and it automath 
cally possesses the character when he falls 
unconscious. The pakim can be slain by 
magic missiles without harming the pos 
sessed PC. A pro/ecf/on from evil will also 
protect a character, since a pakim is a con 
jured creature. 

These pakim are the spirits of dog-like 
creatures, and, if possessed while still con 
scious, a character behaves like a hyena and 
is terrified of the unfamiliar surroundings 
and hostile to any interference with its 
attempts to escape. These possessed charac 
ters are effectively useless but may be cap 
tured and taken out with the party. The 
possessed characters struggle to get as far 
from a paladin as possible, because of his 
protection from evil ability. A speak with 
animals spell or a charm mammal can be 
used to coax the hyena-like spirit from the 
mind of the character and remove the pos 
session* 

The unlocked cabined in the corner of the 
room contains a dagger and two charms on 
silver chains. These are two trm bound as 


amulets and one graegzim bound as the dag 
ger. The charms improve magical saving 
throws by one point each, and the dagger is 
a dagger with little intelligence and 
plenty of gripes. He wants to be set free, and 
constantly pleads for freedom. He was the 
equivalent of a baboon on his home plane, 
and he is eager to get back to his tribe. He 
has no imagination, and cannot compre 
hend the concepts of magic, enchantment, 
and planar travel* All he knows is that he 
wants to go home* 

ENDING THE ADVENTURE 

The exit to the island surface is in Room 
1I1B, but it is a one-way teleport* When 
used, it automatically makes the stone 
entrance on the surface lock and disappear. 
Only Castanamir can make it appear again. 

Any exiting PCs find themselves stranded 
on the barren island. They may have 
obtained resources which permit them to 
escape or signal for help. If they have at 
least stocked up on food, they do not go 
hungry, Otherwise, each PC loses one hit 
point per day for hunger and one hit point 
per day for exposure. With judicious use of 
clerical healing* the party can stay alive 
until it is rescued. The DM may permit sur 
vival techniques (fishing, improvised shel 
ters. etc.) at his discretion. 

Twenty days pass before a ship comes 
within signaling distance. The rescuers 
charge a fair fee for saving the party mem 
bers lives: 10% of the treasure taken from 
the island. 



27 




NEW MONSTERS 


GINGWATZIM 








Tim 

Pakim 

Graegzim 

Eoluzim 

Maronzim 

Naranzim 

FREQUENCY; 

Very Rare 

Very Rare 

Very Rare 

Very Rare 

Very Rare 

Very Rare 

NO. APPEARING: 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

ARMOR CLASS: 

MOVE: 

In animate form, according to form assumed (see below). In free form, AC 0 

12" in animate form, 16" in free form 

HIT DICE: 

2 

2+4 

3+6 

4+4 

5+4 

6 to 14 

% IN LAIR: 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

TREASURE TYPE: 

NO. OF ATTACKS 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

(in animate form): 
DAMAGE/ATTACK 

Nil 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

(in animate form): 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Nil 

1-6 

2-8 

Strength drain in 

1-12 

free form per round 

4-16 

5-30 (or more) 


-1 

-3 

-4 

-5 

-7/spell use 

-10+/spell use 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

In free form, cannot 

be damaged except by magic spells or weapons; in animate form, no special defenses. 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

Standard 

Standard 

Standard 

25% 

50% 

75% 

INTELLIGENCE; 

ALIGNMENT: 

Non- 

Animal Semi- Low/Average Average/Very 

Neutral, with tendency to evil directly proportional to power 

Very /High 

SIZE: 

s 

S-M 

S-M 

M 

M-L 

L 

PSIONIC ABILITY 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

At tack/Defense Modes: 

Nil/nil 

Nil/nil 

Nil/nil 

Nil/nil 

Nil/nil 

Nil/nil 

LEVEL/XP VALUE: 

11/54  2/hp 

11/95  3/hp 

111/160 * 4/hp 

rV/325 * 5/hp 

VI/775.6/hp 

VI and up/775 + 
6/hp and up 


Gingwatzim are beings or raw spirit 
energy from the Ethereal Plane, where they 
normally reside. There are six species of 
gingwatzim: the tim, pakim, graegzim, 
eohizim, maronzim. and naranzim, They 
were conjured to this plane by Castanamir, 
and the necessary spells are considered to be 
of seventh level at least-probably much 
higher. 

The more intelligent species communicate 
through a kind of telepathy. On basic and 
unambiguous matters, the communication 
is reliable, but the more complex the sub 
ject, the more room for misunderstandings. 
Less intelligent spirits establish a rough 
empathic contact for communicating such 
things as "hungry" "stay here," etc. Once 
conjured, these creatures must be bound to 
the service of the conjurer. The intelligence 
rating of the spirit is the percentage chance 
that it will, instead, possess its conjurer. In 
that case, the spirit must be slain or driven 
away by spells before the victim is freed. 


The less intelligent spirits are easier to 
handle and serve placidly enough. The more 
powerful and intelligent spirits vary greatly 
in their willingness to cooperate, and their 
behavior greatly depends on how the con 
jurer treats them and how long they have to 
remain his servants. They may do the job 
well and quickly or in a sloppy fashion. 
They may even hope to cause the conjurer s 
death. On the other hand, some may come 
to love their masters and serve willingly. 

The Three Forms 

Once the spirit, the free form, has been 
bound to service, it may also be given either 
an animate or inanimate form. These are the 
three typical states in which a gingwatzim 
may be encountered. After conjured to this 
plane and bound in one of the forms, a 
gingwatzim may not return to its own plane 
unless it is freed by the conjurer; it is slain, 
either by magic when in its free form or by 
ordinary or magic methods when in its ani 


mate form; it is broken while in inanimate 
form; or its conjurer or current owner dies. 

Once the conjurer has chosen the forms, 
they are invariable. For example, if a 
gingwatzim is bound as a raven and as a 
dagger *1 , those are the only forms it may 
assume when shifting from form to form. It 
may, however, be bound in only one or two 
of the forms, as the conjurer wishes. 

Control of the gingwatzim is transferred 
along with possession of the spirit when it is 
in its inanimate form. This is the only means 
by which someone not the conjurer could 
become the owner and commander of a 
gingwatzim. 

In their free form, gingwatzim are glow 
ing spheres with distinct colors. For exam 
ple, the tim species is blue and the naranzim 
is a bright red-orange. In free form, 
gingwatzim float or flit around like fireflies. 
Although they are nearly insubstantial, 
they do not pass through solid objects, and 
are subject to air currents. 




BS* 


Any living Lhing coming in contact with a 
gingwatzim in its free form is engulfed while 
the gingwatzim feeds on the strength of its 
victim at a constant rate dependent on the 
species of gingwatzim. For example, a tim 
only drains one strength point per round, 
while a naranzim drains at least ten points 
per round. Once the strength drain has 
begun, the victim is paralyzed and unable to 
defend itself, until it finally falls uncom 
scious from exhaustion. The victim regains 
consciousness in 1-20 rounds at a strength of 
3, If the victim is removed from the 
gingwatzims presence, strength returns in 
increments of one point per day until the 
victim is back to normal. However, if a vk> 
tim does not leave the area, the gingwatzim 
will continue to attack. Continuous expo 
sure to the strength drain for more than 24 
hours causes a deep coma. Thereafter the 
victim must make a system shock check 
every 24 hours. Routine healing spells 
return strength to normal, and as powerful 
as this strength drain is, it is not necessarily 
fatal. 

In free form, gingwatzim are often bound 
to an entryway in such a manner that any 
one who enters must walk through its glow. 
In this case, the spirit has limited freedom of 
movement or detailed directions about how 
far it may wander and how it is to guard. 

In their animate forms, the spirits take on 
whatever appearance the conjurer wishes, 
limited only by the power of the species. For 
example, tim can only take on the appear 
ance of plants or simple animals. These 
forms have physical substance and are simi 
lar to the real thing in most ways. In this 
form, gingwatzim may be slain. When an 
animate gingwatzim is slain, it disappears 
immediately. 

This animate form is of limited value 
since it is subject to the same limitations and 
vulnerabilities as the real thing, except that 
it does not require food. The animate form 
is limited to the maximum hit points and 
damage of the original gingwatzim, but it 
takes on the armor class, movement abili 
ties, and appearance of the thing it is imitat 


ing. This means, for example, that a pakim 
in the form of a black bear would have a 
maximum of 20 hit points and could do no 
more than 6 points of damage per round, 
Gingwatzim can mimic magical creatures or 
monsters, but the mimic form has none of 
the magical or monstrous abilities of the 
imitated creatures. If the creature is wearing 
armor, its armor class ts enhanced. 

In the inanimate form, the gingwatzim is 
usually bound as a magical item such as a 
weapon. The more complex and sophisti 
cated the gingwatzim, the more powerful 
the magical item, since the spirit provides 
the power and dweomer* 

The maronzim and naranzim have magic 
use and retain that ability in their inanimate 
forms. They also retain most of their ability 
to communicate and the magic resistance 
peculiar to their species. As weapons, they 
feed on the psychic distress of the 
wounded-the more terrible the wound, the 
greater the fear, the more powerful the satis 
faction the weapon derives. They may also 
give false counsel or follow commands in a 
way not intended by the owner. Castanamir 
created a number of these magical items in 
varying forms and levels of power, but the 
total number currently in existence proba 
bly does not exceed twenty, and may actu 
ally be fewer than that. 

The Six Species 

Tim are the equivalents of very simple 
animals and plants. They are most useful as 
guardians, minor charms, amulets, and tal 
ismans. Such items can be used only once a 
day, since they require a full day to recover 
from the expenditure of energy, and they are 
limited to only the simplest magic functions. 
Usually a conjurer permits a tim to freely 
shift from form to form since they are unin 
telligent and docile. Their animate forms 
include frogs, spiders, fish, insects, snakes, 
and plants with unusual senses and aggres 
sive behavior* 

The pakim lack true reasoning or deduc 
tive abilities, and they communicate only 


AM 


on a rudimentary level* In their inanimate 
form they are typically +1 weapons. In ani 
mate form they are often mammals and 
birds, usually limited in size to those some 
what smaller than man. As birds and mam 
mals, they can be trained and make loyal 
companions, but can learn only simple com 
mands and phrases. 

Graegzim possess true though limited 
intelligence. They are typically fremlins, 
fairies, brownies, etc. These spirits commu 
nicate telepathically in any of the three 
forms, but they have weak memories, and 
cannot handle complicated instructions. 
They are trustworthy, although capable of 
considerable mischief. Graegzim are usually 
bound into +2 weapons whose major fault Is 
the tendency to chatter idly or whine and 
complain when not in use. 

Eoluzim are only slightly more powerful 
than graegzim, and their magic resistance 
makes then very valuable* Eoluzim more 
closely approximate human intelligence; 
their only fault is a tendency to violence and 
an appetite for power* As +3 weapons they 
are eager to feed on the spirits of their vic 
tims, and they always goad their owners to 
fight. 

The powerful and intelligent maronzim 
vary greatly in attitude and ability. They use 
1st and 2nd level illusionist spells as often as 
desired, at will, and almost instantaneously* 
Their safest use is as a +4 magical item or a 
magical staff with the abilities of 1st and 2nd 
level illusionists. The maronzim are much 
better employed as intelligent counselors* 
They have excellent memories and reason 
ing abilities and can ignore emotional fac 
tors. Their danger is their subtlety and 
tendency to treachery. In animate form, 
maronzim are usually humans* though the 
oretically any man-sized shape is possible. 

Very little is known about naranzim. 
They are so powerful that they are thought 
to be gods or derm-gods to other gingwat- 
zim. There probably are limits to the ani 
mate and inanimate forms that a naranzim 
may assume. 


29 


FERAL SLASHER 

FREQUENCY; Very Rare 
NO. APPEARING: 1-2 
ARMOR CLASS: 2 
MOVE: 24* 

HIT DICE; 2*3 
% IN LAIR: 20% 

TREASURE TYPE: Nil 
NO, OF ATTACKS: 4 
DAMAGE ATTACK: 1-6/1-6/1-4/1-4 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Ferocity may stun or 
cause fear 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Standard 
INTELLIGENCE; Animal 
ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Neutral 
SIZE: ${y tali) 

PS IONIC ABILITY; Nil 

Attack/Defense Modes; Nil/Nil 
LEVEL/XP VALUE: 11/65 * 3/hp 

This three-foot-tall mammalian carnivore 
relies on blinding speed and ferocity to stun 
and panic its prey. It is dull-witted, attack- 
ing regardless of the size of its victim, and 
slow to respond to the unexpected. It resem 
bles a hyena but with oversized hind legs. 
The multiple attacks represent two jaw and 
two daw attacks per round, A victim must 
roll his charisma or less on ld2Q to avoid 
being stunned or panicked. If the roll fails, 
roll ld6* 1-4 indicates that the victim is 
stunned for one melee round: 5-6 indicates 
panic, and the victim runs from the attack 
for two rounds. 


FREMLIN 


FREQUENCY: Very Rare 
NO. APPEARING; 1-4 
ARMOR CLASS: 6 
MOVE: 12* 

HIT DICE; 3+6 
% IN LAIR: 20% 

TREASURE TYPE: X 
NO. OF ATTACKS; 1 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: 1-4 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: None 
SPECIAL DEFENSES; +1 weapon to hit 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Standard 
INTELLIGENCE; Average 
ALIGNMENT; Chaotic neutral 
SIZE: S tr tall) 

PSJON1C ABILITY: Nil 

Attack/Defense Modes: Nil/ml 
LEVEL/XP VALUE: III/85 * 4/hp 


A tiny slate-colored, winged goblinoidof 
the gremlin family the fremlin is annoying 
but harmless. They alternate between whin 
ing laziness and mischievous curiosity 
Their original introduction to the Prime 
Material Plane was presumably the result of 
careless conjuring. They are extremely long- 
lived, durable, and quick to disappear if 
danger arises. Occasionally they become 
tolerable companions if they take a liking to 
someone and are well-fed and entertained. 


IRON MAN 

FREQUENCY: Very Rare 
NO. APPEARING: 1 
ARMOR CLASS: 3 
MOVE: 12* 

HIT DICE: 4 
% IN LAIR: Nil 
TREASURE TYPE: Nil 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: MO 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: See below 
SPECIAL DEFENSES; *3 weapon to hit, 
magical fire repairs damage 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Only affected by 
electrical magic attacks 
INTELLIGENCE: Non-intelligent 
ALIGNMENT: Neutral 
SIZE: S (3" tall) 

PSIONiC ABILITY: Nil 

Attack/Defense Modes: Nil/nil 
LEVEL/XP VALUE: IV/165 * 4/hp 

This is a miniature iron golem; it costs 
one-third as much and requires only one 
month to construct. Like a full-sized iron 
golem, it is under the control of the magic- 
user who created it. The poisonous cloud of 
the iron man is 1**1'* 1* every 7 rounds, 
but causes only 1-6 points of damage, no 
save. It is smaller and less formidable than 
an iron golem but twice as fast. It is dam 
aged only by *3 or better weapons. Only 
electrical magical attacks affect it, slowing It 
50% for 3 rounds. Magical fire attacks 
repair damage on a one-hit-point for one- 
hit-point basis. An iron man is vulnerable to 
rust monster attacks. 


30 




BS*- 

PRE-ROLLED CHARACTERS-DM'S SUMMARY 

Lf you are using the pre-generated characters, open the staples at the center of this booklet 
and remove the center eight pages. These can be cut into eight character sheets and distrib 
uted to the players. 


L Ahnir Mremhouse, magic-user, human 
male (AC 10/9 dex; MV 12; M2; HP 7; 
#AT 1; Dmg by weapon; AL LG; S 12, l 
15, W ll r D 15, C 17, Ch 10). No armor. 
In spell book: comprehend languages, 
hold portal, read magic, shield, sleep, 
trnseen servant, and identify ; Owns 
magic storage rod: contains detect invisi 
ble , locate object, identify and ESP one 
use each, 

2. Relek Noshouse, magic-user, human 
male (AC 10; MV 12; M3; HP 6; #AT 1; 
Dmg by weapon; AL LG; S14, 117, W 7 t 
D 14, C 15, Ch 11), No armor. In spell 
book: affect normal fires, burning 
hands , shield, shocking grasp , sleep, 
unseen servant, magic missle, knock, 
scare, stinking cloud, web. Owns wand 
of fireballs (6d6 damage, 2 charges). 

3. Genton Stlindhouse, cleric, human male 
(AC 8; MV 12; C3; HP 19: #AT 1; Dmg 
by weapon; AL LG; 5 12, I 12, W 15, D 
9, C 10, Ch 12.) Wears leather padding, 
owns a mace *2 t a flask of holy water, 
and his holy symbol ring (stores one each 
of the following spells: sanctuary detect 
magic , defect evil, protection from evil}- 

4. "Beetle" Farhills, thief, halfling male (AC 
8/4 dex; MV 12; 12; HP 8; #AT 1; Dmg 
by weapon; AL LN; S 12, I 8, W 13, D 
18, C 11, Ch 11), Wears leather armor 
and owns thief kit, rope and grappling 
hook, and dagger *2 (I 12, E 2. detects 
magic within 1 *; semi-empathic, usable 
once per turn.) 


5. Watim Berelstane, thief, dwarven male 
(AC 8/8 dex; MV 12; T4; HP 18; #AT 1; 
Dmg by weapon; AL LN; S 11, I 13, W 
16, D 15, C 16, Ch 10). Wears leather 
armor and boots of speed, and owns 
dwarven axe *1. *2 versus mental 
attacks. 

6. Porall Frehouse, fighter, elven male (AC 
9/7 dex; MV 12; F3; HP 18; #AT 1; Dmg 
by weapon; AL CG; S 16, I 12, W 15, D 
16, C 11, Ch 13), Wears leather padding, 
carries shield d, broadsword *1, and 
bow. 

7. Gro Mekadet, fighter, dwarven male 
(AC 8; MV 12; F2; HP 16, #AT 1; Dmg 
by weapon; AL CG; S 18(57), 112, W10, 
D 14, C 16, Ch 13). Wears leather pad 
ding, carries war hammer *2, sling with 
10 bullets, and a backpack with 2 days of 
rations. THACO 16 (sword), 18 (sling). 

8. Paterno Stlindhouse, paladin, human 
male (AC 7/5 prot/evil; MV 12; P2; HP 
17; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon; AL LG; S 
16, 115, W14, D14, C 13, Ch 17). Wears 
leather padding and shield, carries light 
crossbow and sword *2 (luck blade, no 
wishes). 




Tournament 
Characters: Revisions 
for the Second Session 

For the second session the same characters 
are used with the following additions and 
deletions which reflect the discovery of use 
ful items and the use of consumable 
resources, 

1* Abnir: scroll of tongues, fly, and invisi 
bility 10' radius. Used rod ; ESP iden 
tify. 

2. Relek: combat staff *1 (other abilities 
unknown) [no other abilities]. Used 
wand: 1 fireball. 

3. Gen ton: scroll of sanctuary, fire resist 
ance, and cure light wounds (x2). Used: 
ring: detect evil, protect against evil 

4. "Beetle": graegzim multiform short- 
sword * 2 from Room 7 (abilities known). 

5. Watim: potion of extra healing (abilities 
known). 

6. Porall; javelin of lightning (abilities 
known; Porall has no proficiency with 
this weapon), 

7. Gro: magical gloves of unknown ability 
{gloves of fire resistance ), 

8. Paterno: magical dust (unknown abil 
ity) [dusf of appearance] 

The following items are held in common 
by the party: ring of free action, ring of pro 
tection *1; potions of levitation, polymorph 
self, and climbing. None of their properties 
are known. The party should decide who is 
carrying what before the session begins. 


31 


A 


Tournament Scoring 
System 

The following scoring system can be used 
for competition. Variations can be made to 
emphasize different styles of play. For exam* 
pie, to emphasize role playing, cut the pri 
mary objective to 50 and double the awards 
for role playing. This scoring system is 
designed for team play. 

PRIMARY OBIECTIVE... 150 pts. 

(award all or none) 

Living Quarters-Finding access to Room 111 
Laboratories-finding exit to surface 

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE .30 pts. 

Living Quarters-stocking up on food 
Laboratories-finding the free spell book in 
the library 

CHARACTER SURVIVAL .40 pts, 

(5 points for each surviving character) 

ROLE PLAYING ....40 pts. 

(award points for each character, determine 
team total) 

No role playing 0 

Some role playing 2 

Generally in character 3 

Always in character 5 

TEAMWORK ..50 pts. 

(award 5 to 50 points, depending on DM's 
opinion of how well players worked as a 
team) 

RULES KNOWLEDGE . 30 pts. 

(award 5 to 30 points, depending on DM's 
judgment of players' knowledge of game 
rules) 

INGENUITY ..... 30 pts. 

(award 3 points per ingenious solution, to 
maximum of 30 points) 

For the second round, the characters are 
assumed to be exactly the same as in the first 
round, but with all wounds healed. The 
equipment/charges changes are summa 
rized at the end of the adventure This in for 
ma Hon does not appear on the character 
sheets. 


TOURNAMENT NOTE; 

In tournament play with multiple teams, 
running this adventure is easier if the party 
is not allowed to split up during the adven 
ture. A workable rationale is: 

Castanamiris house is actually semi- 
sentient, a security system to restrict the 
movement of groups that might be hostile. 
The portals key on the life force auras of the 
group and selectively lock to keep the group 
together until the life force auras of the 
group have been present long enough for 
the house to become used to them. Thus, 
once a character goes through a portal, all 
remaining portals in the room will seal. Fur 
ther. the character will be unable to leave 
the room he entered. The effect disappears 
when the house becomes used to its new 
inhabitants, and the player characters can 
then use the portals normally, 


9110XXX1501 


32 










Official Competition Adventure 


The Lost Island of Castanamir 

Ken Rolston 



* W 1; 


It is terribly cold. You swam for your life to this 
mysterious island, losing most of your provisions 
in the process, only to find it barren of all but grass. 
A biting wind from the north drives through your 
wet clothes, chilling you to the bone. Might is falling 
and promises even colder temperatures; you wish 
this place had even a bush to burn as firewood. Your 
stomach has just begun to complain about the lack 
of dinner, when one of your companions calls, and 
you rush to his side, hoping he's found a way to turn 
grass into a sandwich, instead, he points to the 
ground in front of him. "Look there." 

Set in a shallow depression in the ground Is a 
stone door. Your friend reaches down and gives a 
tug, and the door swings slowly open on creaking 
hinges, revealing a descending stair. The first 
thought that crosses your mind is whether it would 
be better to freeze to death up here in the wind or fall 
into the hands of Castanamir the Mad, the unpre 
dictable. 

This adventure is for use with the ADVANCED 
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS' rules. This adventure 
cannot be played without the AD&D' rules pro 
duced by TSR, Inc. 



1944 TSR. Inc. All RtRhO Received. Printed mtl SA 


TSR. Inc. 
POB 756 
take Geneva 
WJ 53147 


TSR UK Ltd. 
The Will, Rathmore Road 
Cambridge C8! 4AD 
United Kingdom 


394*54546 XTSR0600 
ISBN 0 88038-189-2 



91I0XXXI40I 



























DM MAP 1: LIVING QUARTERS 


t 

KEY N 
\ 

i Squffirr- 4 F"! 
{tncEpi Room ft) 



MAGIC NORMAL SECRET 

PORTAL &OOR ogqr 


| 2W ( ms | 

DESTINATION 

CODES 




-4hot ¦ 


Room 1 -Living Area 
Closet 


Room 2-Lounge 

3W 


Room 3-Dining Hall 











11 










j 




















"C 


Tit 

*pT3 

c/- 






































"0 







D 



'c 







5 



c 







o 



If] 







D 

- 















o 


c 






t 














2W Enter 


Bwkcase 


Room 5-Game Room 
6W 


Room 4-Kitchen 

5W 


9N 83 


Room 6-Fantasy Room 
7W 
























































































































































































































































































DM MAP 2: LABORATORIES AND WORKROOMS 





Room VII-Golem Lab 
VlllW 
IXS 


Room V1I1- 

iXW 


Enchantment Lab 


HUH 


Room IX-Summoning Lab 

































































































































































































































