Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09107 C 4 To Find A King"
See other formats
A 9107 


Advanced 


Official Competition Adventure 


To Find a King 

Bob Blake 


ADVANCED DUNGEONS f3Ft>RAGO$S and AD&0 are registered trademarks owi(ed 
PRODUCTS OF YOUR IMAGlfflV^ON. RPGA, the RPGA logo, and the TSR logo are trademarks owned by 
TSR.% 
GEN CON is registered service mark owned by TSR, Inc. 








J 










































(c)1984 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 





































































































































































































































































































































FROST MAN'S MAP (Scenario 4) 1 square = 10' 




(r) 1985 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 



























































































































































































































































































































EYES OF BERTA WILDERNESS MAP (Scenario 3) 

1 hex ¦ .2 miles Numbers indicate trail encounters 



(r) 1985 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


Master 

Key " l (tm)" 

Ridge 

River 

Trail 

Cave 
Rock 

Outcropping 
Reeds 

Chain 

Steps 


z 








DAMROSIL RIVER MAP (Scenario 3) 1 square = 100' Contours are in feet 































































































































































































THE CAVES BEHIND THE EYES (Scenario 3) 1 square - 10' 



Door 

One Way 

Secret Door 

Concealed 

Door 

Crates 

Bridge 


Rubble 


Water 


To Cave A 


lam 





1 

2 











mM 


'png 


TT 


m 





















~s 




















V 
















4 































(r) 1985 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

































































































































































































































































































RIVER LUGGH WILDERNESS MAP (Scenario 4) 

1 hex = 2 miles Numbers indicate wilderness encounters 


MASTER 

KEY 


River 


Ridge 
I-I Wall 



MAZE MAP (Scenario 4) 1 square = 10' 


Exit 


i 


N 


I 


Entrance 


111 l 

¦""ST 






-f- 

i- 





y 


i 

i- 




m 




G ¦ Gargoyle Position (BEHIND ONE-WAY MIRROR) 
X = Position of Corpse 


° 1985 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
9107XXX0701 


















































































































































































































































































































































































Adventure for Characters Levels 4-7 

Advanced 

Dungeons|5ipra3ons 


Official Competition Adventure 

To Find a King 

Bob Blake 



CREDITS 

Editor: Jon Pickens 
Graphic Designer: Elizabeth Riedel 
Cover Art: Keith Parkinson 
Interior Art: Ron Randall 
Cartography: Diesel 

Special Thanks to: Dave Griggs, Jeff Hartz, 
Dan Lawrence, Martin Newhard, Terry Prim 
rose, Jim Ronco, Tom Sievers, Edward G. 
Sobers, Dean VanDrasek, and Rex Zinn 


Distributed to the book trade in the United States by Random 
House Inc. and in Canada by Random House of Canada, Ltd. 
ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, AD&D, PRODUCTS 
OF YOUR IMAGINATION, and the TSR logo are trademarks of 
TSR, Inc. 

GEN CON is a registered service mark owned by TSR, Inc. 

This product is protected under the copyright laws of the United 
States of America. Anyreproductionorotherunauthorizeduseof 
the material or artwork contained herein is prohibited without the 
express written permission of TSR, Inc. 

01985 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in U.S. A. 


Any questions on this material should be sent, together with a self- 
addressed, stamped envelope, to "AD&D(r) Game Questions" at 
our address below: 

TSR, Inc. TSR OK Ltd. 

POB 756 The Mill, Rathmore Road 

Lake Geneva, Cambridge CB1 4AD 

WI53147 _ United Kingdom 


TSR, Inc. 

PROOUCTS OF YOU* IMAGINATION'* 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


INTRODUCTION. 2 

About this Adventure . 2 

Tournament Play. 2 

SCENARIO 1: THE WHEEL OF TIME. 3 

Players'Background. 3 

Tournament Notes. 4 

Loring'sWood. 4 

SCENARIO 2: LOCKSMITH .10 

Players' Background . 10 

Dungeon Master's Notes . 10 

The Trail to Krell's Manor . 10 

The Gatehouse .12 

The Manor Grounds . 12 

Krell's Manor House . 13 

The Mountain Path . 16 

SCENARIO 3: THE PERILS OF SYMBOLISM . 19 

Players' Background . 19 

Dungeon Master's Notes . 19 

Damrosil Trail Encounters . 19 

The Cave Entrances .21 

Bugbear Lair . 22 

SCENARIO 4: DIVINE WINE.26 

Players' Introduction . 26 

Dungeon Master's Notes .26 

Luggh River Encounters . 26 

Ending the Scenarios.30 

APPENDIX . 30 

Tournament Scoring System .30 

Tournament Characters.31 

Player Maps . Cover 


Printed in U.S.A. 
ISBN0-88038-159-0 
9107 

































Introduction 


This game adventure contains four first 
round tournament adventures that were 
originally run at the GEN CON(r) XVI Con 
vention. They are the first through fourth 
parts of an extended adventure that has a 
total of eight parts in all. These adventures 
can be run separately or together, in either a 
tournament or a campaign setting. The 
Dungeon Master (DM) should read each 
adventure thoroughly before running it for 
the players. 

STOP! If you are a player, please stop read 
ing here. Knowing the details of this adven 
ture will spoil the fun for everyone. 


THE PERILS OF SYMBOLISM requires 
the characters to quietly penetrate a 
strongly-held monster lair without tripping 
the alarms before they are ready to strike. 

DIVINE WINE requires the characters to 
pass a mirror maze after various wilderness 
encounters and answer a series of riddles to 
gain their prize. 

Treasure and Experience 

In campaign play, the suggested compensa 
tion for each adventure of the quest is 500 gp 
(and XP) per character level (less any unusu 
ally high expenses), plus whatever treasure 
and magic the party recovers. 


ABOUT THIS ADVENTURE 


The encounters in these adventures were 
originally designed for a team of 10 charac 
ters, levels 4-7, of varying classes and abili 
ties. Each encounter has boxed information 
to be read to the players and unboxed DM 
notes describing how to run it. Some en 
counters have a Tournament notes section 
with special instructions for tournament 
play only. The characters used in the origi 
nal tournament have been included at the 
back of the adventure. 

AC = Armor #AT = Number of 
Class Attacks 

MV = Move THACO = To Hit AC 0* 


HD = Hit Dice 
hp = hit points 
F = Fighter 
M = Magic-user 
I = Illusionist 
C = Cleric 
D = Druid 
T = Thief 


Dmg = Damage 
SA = Special Attacks 
SD = Special Defenses 
S = Strength 
Int = Intelligence 
W = Wisdom 
Dex = Dexterity 
Con = Constitution 


Ch = Charisma 


This adventure contains the first four 
adventures in the epic of THE PROPHECY 
OF BRIE The first, THE WHEEL OF TIME, 
is a wilderness adventure with a riddle at its 
end. This part of the search is measured in 
days, and may require the player characters 
to stop occasionally for healing-the pres 
ence of a cleric on this part of the quest will 
be critical. 

The second adventure, LOCKSMITH, re 
quires both speed and careful negotiation by 
the players, with the possibility of a nasty 
ambush at the end. It requires that the DM 
keep track of two separate lines of action 
simultaneously, as these may intersect at 
any point in the last part of the adventure. 


TOURNAMENT PLAY 

As tournament adventures, the recom 
mended running time is 3 V 2 hours per 
adventure. As originally run, achieving the 
goal was the primary victory condition, 
with area penetration secondary. Casual 
ties, then expenditure of resources (items, 
spells, etc.), were used as tie-breakers. At 
the end of the adventure is a usable scoring 
system. The tournament also has various 
conventions, which follow: 

1. Players are presented with precreated 
characters. Characteristics, equipment, 
spell lists, and magical items are listed. 
Players may not add to or alter this list. 

2. Players may only use the Players Hand 
book during play. Use of the other rule 
books is prohibited. All personal magi 
cal items that the characters start with 
are known and completely understood 
by the owners. 

3. There are no wandering monsters in 
tournament play. The random monster 
tables included here are for campaign 
play only. 

4. Monsters will fight to the best of their 
ability unless the tournament notes spec 
ify otherwise; such monsters will neither 
check morale nor flee unless noted. Mon 
sters will be fully aware of the capabili 
ties of their weapons, magical items, and 
spells, and will use these to advantage. 

5. Tournament characters do not advance in 
level between rounds. The pacing of the 
adventures is such that no time for training 
is available between the scenarios. 


2 



Scenario 1: The Wheel of Time 


PLAYERS BACKGROUND 

Two hundred years ago the people of the 
kingdom of Pellham rose in revolt against 
the oppressive monarchy of King Alendus 
II. Mobs surged through the streets of the 
capital city of Widdershin, forced their way 
into the palace, and ransacked it. Every 
thing of monetary value was carried away 
and all else burned. 

The monarchy was replaced by a council, 
which is currently headed by the seneschal 
Gwydion. However, that the council is now 
floundering is no secret, and this has 
resulted in a groundswell of popular opin 
ion for the return of the monarchy. A strong 
individual is needed now to pull things back 
together, but there is one big problem: who 
will be king? Certainly not Gwydion nor 
any of the council! 

Perhaps the answer lies in a packet 
received from a religious sect known as the 
Brothers of Brie. Several old manuscripts 
were enclosed, the most important of which 
is the following prophecy: 


WITH SIX HANDS OF LORING THE 
LOST UPON THE WHEEL OF TIME, 
AT THE MOMENT BAZEL MOUNTS 
HIS CHARIOT TO DO BATTLE WITH 
THE SEVEN DAUGHTERS, THE 
DEAD KING SHALL RISE TO SEIZE 
THE TRIAD WITH HANDS THAT 
CANNOT GRASP AND EYES THAT 
CANNOT SEE. ALL WARDS BROKEN 
AND THE MYSTIC BARRIERS 
PIERCED WITH MATING SWORDS, 
THREE SAINTS AND SINNERS WILL 
STRUGGLE IN THE DUST, BOTH 
AND NEITHER TO TRIUMPH, AND 
WHILE THE SUNDERED EARTH 
SPEWS FORTH THE DREGS OF CEN 
TURIES, A NEW ORDER SHALL 
COME UPON THE LAND. 

Only three elements of the prophecy are 
recognizable in this day and age. 
"Loring" was the twelfth king of 
Pellham. "Bazel" and "The Seven Daugh 
ters" are heavenly constellations that 
periodically move toward one another as 
if going to battle. 

Most intriguing to be sure, but which 
dead king? With the looting of the palace 
all those years ago, not even the proper 


lineage of the dynasties is remembered. 
But there is one king still held in rever 
ence by one and all, Llywelyn the Just. 
Llywelyn! Of course! The Prophecy is 
ancient, probably written about the time 
of the founding of Pellham. Its authentic 
ity is unquestionable, but is this the time 
of its fulfilment? 

Gwydion has selected your group to 
investigate and to recover Llywelyn if 
possible. Working closely with scholars 
from the Brothers of Brie, you decide 
that the first leg of the quest should be to 
determine if indeed it is time for the 
return of Llywelyn. The exact nature of 
the "Wheel of Time" is not known, but it 
is felt to be a druidic device used to deter 
mine the timing of astrological events. 
Loring must refer to Loring's Wood, a 
small forest northeast of Widdershin, so 
that is where the quest begins. You may 
travel by boat as far as the small stream 
that empties into the River Damrosil 
from Loring's Wood, but from there you 
must travel into the forest on foot, as the 
creek is unnavigable. You are to find the 
Wheel of Time as soon as possible and 
deduce, if you can, its operation, to 
prove that the time of which the Proph 
ecy speaks is at hand. 


DUNGEON MASTER S NOTES 

LORING WOOD 
RANDOM ENCOUNTER 


Die 

Roll Encounter 


1 1-3 black bears 

2 1-12 wild boars 

3 2-20 ogres 

4 2-5 owl bears 

5 1 giant skunk 

6 2-20 wolves 

7 2-8 giant spiders 

8 3-30 stirges 

*A standard patrol consists of 10 light hor 
semen in ring mail and shield. All are armed 

with longsword and hand axe, as well as 

three javelins. 

Horsemen (10): AC 6; MV 9724"; F0; hp 5 
each; #AT 1; THACO 20(2); Dmg by 
weapon 

Light warhorses (10): AC 7; MV 24"; HD 2; 
hp 9 each; #AT2; THACO 16; Dmg 1-4/ 
1-4 


They are led by a sergeant in chain mail. 

Sergeant: AC 4; MV 9724"; FI; hp 8; #AT 
1; THACO 20; Dmg by weapon, but 
otherwise armed as his men. 

Note that NPCs, caravans, and pilgrims 
most likely head in the direction opposite 
the party's course. 

The map is scaled at 1 hex • 1 mile. Thus 
the party will cover about 20 hexes in a day 
(5 off the trails), subject to any special 
delays specified in the text. This does not 
include most normal encounters, which are 
too brief to significantly delay a day's 
march. 

Time frame: The party is not sure how long 
the adventure is. They search Loring's 
Wood until they find the Wheel of Time or 
decide it isn't there. Do not not actively dis 
courage the party from resting for a few 
days for healing if they want, but should 
mention that the number of days they take 
to find the Wheel is significant in determin 
ing who wins the tournament. 

Spell Recovery: Spell casters can replenish 
or modify their spell selections at the begin 
ning of each day. Keep track of the number 
of days the party takes. The best team finds 
the Wheel of Time and determines the 
meaning of the two light beams in the fewest 
number of days. 

Off-trail movement: If; during the adven 
ture, the party tries to move cross-country 
off the trails, mention the thick underbrush 
and difficult ground they will encounter. If 
they persist after a third turn, they become 
lost and eventually circle to the point they 
left the path, after losing half a day. In tour 
nament play, there are no random encount 
ers. 

Weather: The weather is always clear and 
sunny unless otherwise noted in the text 
(call lightning does not work). 

Forest Animals: For tournament purposes, 
small forest animals do not have any signifi 
cant information for the party. Let the play 
ers have as many such encounters as they 
want, but try to use as little of their time as 
possible. 

Start: Play starts with the party on the for 
est path. They have left the boat that 
brought them up the Damrosil and have 
moved inland. The time is early morning. 
Game animals and their signs are plentiful. 


3 







LORING'S WOOD 

1. CREEK CROSSING 


The forest path you have been following 
turns toward a creek that is about 15 feet 
wide. Here, a huge tree trunk spans the 
water, its ends buried in the brush and 
trees on each side. The path continues on 
the other side, winding further into 
Loring's Wood, and the paving stones of 
an old road can be seen there. 


The old road is an ancient trade route 
through Loring's Wood. The characters 
remember this fact if the players ask. No 
further information about it is available. 
The "log" is actually a treant. 

Treant: AC 0; MV 12"; HD 10; hp 40; #AT 
2; THACO 10; Dmg 3d6/3d6; SA ani 
mate trees; SD never surprised 

There are two more here, one at each end of 
the bridge. 

AC 0; MV 12"; HD 10; hp 35 (far bank), 50 
(near bank); #AT 2; THACO 10; Dmg 
3d6/3d6; SA animate trees; SD never 
surprised 

Long ago, the treants were warped by evil 
magic. Now evil themselves, they intend to 
ambush the party as it crosses the creek. 

If the party crosses here, the treant on the 
far bank automatically gains a surprise 
attack at +4 "to hit" against one character 
who crosses the bridge. The one on the par 
ty's side then suddenly attacks the rear of 
the party the same way. 

Simultaneously, the "bridge" rises, dump 
ing all the characters on it into the creek, 
which is four feet deep. The treants are intel 
ligent, and try to make their ambush as 
complete as possible. Thus, an unwary 
party might find its front and back members 
surprised, and the central ones thrown into 
the water! 

Tournament notes: If the druid asks what 
type of tree the log is, the treant looks like 
an oak tree unless the druid comes within 
melee distance to make a careful examina 
tion. At close range, he discovers the 
ambush and the treants attack without sur 
prise. 

Attempts by lightly armored characters 
to jump the creek result in them missing the 
opposite bank and falling into the water. 
Tlie stream banks are too muddy to provide 
good footing. 


The treants do not animate trees in the 
tournament. If the party tries to avoid this 
encounter by finding another crossing, the 
treants follow and attack two turns later 
without surprise. 

Remember that fire-based attacks against 
treants are at +4 "to hit" and the treant saves 
at -4. Fire damage dice are at a +1 bonus. 

If the party tries to run from the treants, 
the base chance for evasion depends on the 
movement of the slowest character in the 
group: 

9" or less.30% 

12".50% 

Add +10% if the evading group has less than 
6 characters. Add +30% if the group leaves 
the trail. 

The treants receive free blows each round 
a disengaging group fails to evade. 

2. THE FIRST FORK 


After leaving the creek, the trail winds 
through the forest. Occasional ancient 
paving stones reveal that you are still on 
the old trade route. 


Be sure to announce whenever a party has 
come to the end of a day. Eventually, they 
reach the first fork in the path. An examina 
tion of this area reveals that the old road lies 
along the right path. 

2a. THE LEFT PATH 


The left path leads deeper into the forest. 
The foliage is quite thick, completely 
blacking sunlight and the air is still and 
musty-smelling. On all sides, huge, ropy 
vines hang from the trees, some tightly 
stretched. A vague feeling of uneasiness 
hangs over each of you, as if your small 
band is being watched. 


A party that specifically studies the vines 
realizes that some of them are actually 
strands of spider webbing. A party that 
takes the hint and returns to the fork avoids 
this encounter. 

This is the lair of an ettercap. A party that 
continues runs afoul of the snares of the 
ettercap. Have each character roll 4d6. 
Those who roll their dexterity or less on 
ld20 avoid the snares (these, with the aid of 
a springy sapling, jerk the victim feet-first 
into the air, to hang upside down and 
defenseless). If six or more characters fail 



their rolls, only five are snared, lowest dex 
terities first. Snared characters are whipped 
upward, to hang six feet above the forest 
path. It takes a combined strength of 17 to 
pull a character down far enough so the 
snare rope can be cut. A snared character in 
light armor (less than ring mail) and armed 
with a cutting weapon may free himself 
from the snare in four rounds. 

Meanwhile, the unsnared members of the 
party are surprised by three giant spiders. 

Spiders, giant (3): AC 4; MV 3"*12"; HD 
4+4; hp 12,15,20,25; #AT 2; THACO 15; 
Dmg 2-8; SA poison, webs 

The surprise round the spiders shoot webs 
at random party members. Treat the attack 
as short range missile fire, counting all char 
acters as AC 10 (base "to hit" is a 5), modi 
fied by dexterity. Characters struck are out 
of the fight unless freed (this takes 10 rounds 
unless the webs are burned). After the sur 
prise round the spiders close to melee and 
attack. 

The party may try to set fire to the webs 
the spiders are using for movement. Handle 
this situation in the following manner: 

1. Roll ld20 for each spider. On a roll of 11 
or better, the spider has jumped off the 
burning web to safety with no damage. 

2. If the roll is 10 or less, the web is burned 
out from underneath the spider, which 
falls to the ground, taking 1-6 points of 
damage. 

The actions of the ettercap depend how the 
spiders are doing. If they are losing badly, 
the ettercap will avoid the party altogether. 
If the spiders are doing well, the ettercap 
will sneak out and start binding the snared 
characters, approaching from behind with 
some of his web material. One character 
will be bound in two rounds. A snared char 
acter may attack at a -3 penalty the first 
round and -5 the second, but will be helpless 
thereafter. Also, all defensive benefit from 
dexterity or shield is lost. Once all snared 
characters are firmly tied, the ettercap will 
kill them one at a time at random, using its 
claws and bite (twice normal attacks; auto 
matic hits for maximum damage). 

Ettercap: AC 6; MV 12 "; HD 5; hp 24; #AT 
3; THACO 15; Dmg 1-3/1-3/1-8; SA 
poison 

If reduced to 8 hp or less, the ettercap sur 
renders and start wheedling and whining for 
the party to spare it. If questioned, it pleads 
ignorance, but tells the party to look for the 


4 








mad hermit (the ettercap knows what will 
happen when they reach encounter 5, and 
expects them to die there). 

2b. THE RIGHT PATH 


The old road leads straight south 
through Loring's Wood. You notice that 
there are fewer game animals about, and 
their signs are quite scarce. Here and 
there it looks as if something large has 
broken down trees and flattened the veg 
etation. Deep, muffled croaking is occa 
sionally heard through the dense foliage 
ahead. Suddenly, the path opens into a 
clearing, revealing a cave opening in the 
side of a small hill to the left. 


The cave is the lair of a two wyvems. 

Wyvems (2): AC 3; MV 6" 124"; HD 7+7; 
hp 42,50; #AT 2; THACO 13; Dmg 2- 
16/1-6; SA poison tail 

The wyverns are presently watching the 
party from the vantage point of a 60-foot- 
tall oak tree on the right side of the clearing. 
They swoop to attack if the party enters 
their lair, or when the party attempts to 
leave the glen. 

3. THE STONE CAIRN 

Beyond encounter 2 the party comes to the 
point where the trail from encounter 2a 
rejoins the old road (2b). 


The forest path twists and turns, rises 
and falls as it negotiates increasingly 
rougher terrain. The forest growth is 


thick, though it is not difficult to see 
clearly some distance into it. 

As you round the shoulder of a small 
hill, a beautiful glen opens before you. It 
is approximately 100 yards in diameter 
and covered with a thick turf of lush 
grass. The perimeter is ringed with 
stately beech trees that must be at least 
300 years old. Near, but not exactly in, 
the center of the glen is a copse of smaller 
beeches, whose branches have grown 
together to form a leafy canopy above a 
small cairn of rocks. 

Three paths leave the glen, heading 
northwest, northeast, and southwest. 


The party may bypass the cairn and exit on 
the other side of the glen with no apparent ill 
effects. If they choose this course of action, 
proceed to 4. If they investigate the copse 
and cairn more closely, read the next para 
graph. 


Set amid a drift of leaves, the cairn has 
been built in the form of a 5-foot high 
truncated cone, the 10-foot diameter 
base tapering to a top 2 feet across. There 
is a shallow depression in the top of the 
cairn that holds a clear, watery liquid. 


The bard's legend lore ability does not iden 
tify the cairn nor the liquid, which has a 
musty odor. The liquid is magical. Drinking 
from this basin will befuddle the mind of the 
imbiber to the extent that he will forget who 
he is, who his friends are and why he is in 
this forest. A saving throw vs. spells (at a -2 
penalty) is applicable. A dispel magic can 
cels this effect, though a deep sleep results 


that lasts 24 hours. If the party searches in 
the leaves near the base of the cairn, they 
find the remains of a lyre. Atop the instru 
ment is an oddly proportioned leather glove 
in perfect condition. The glove is odd in that 
it is half again as wide as a normal man's 
hand and monogrammed with the letter "L." 
If it is moved, the portion of the lyre 
revealed shows no sign of rot or disintegra 
tion. A detect magic reveals that the glove is 
magical, but not the lyre. The glove 
belonged to Loring the Lost, though it is 
vital you make NO mention of him at this 
time. Loring was the twelfth king of 
Pellham and also a bard. He drank from this 
same basin and wandered away to who- 
knows-where. (He is encountered in a later 
adventure in this series.) 

4. THE FORD 

The path continues to a fork. The left 
branch has paving stones from the old trade 
route while the right winds off into the for 
est in the general direction the party has 
been traveling. The players must decide 
which way to go. 


The circuitous woodland track leads 
once again to the stream, and it's appar 
ent that the stream must be crossed in 
order to continue. There is no log bridge 
this time, but rather a simple ford. 


The water is only a few inches deep and the 
bottom is hard-packed and sandy. There is 
no problem for the characters here at all, 
though the description is included for par 
ties who wish to take elaborate precautions. 


5 










5. THE MAD DRUID 


Onward you travel, the path leading 
deeper into the forest. The terrain here is 
quite rocky, and those with sharp ears 
can hear a deep, melodious chanting 
coming from somewhere ahead. A faint 
path can be seen winding away in the 
opposite direction from the chanting. A 
strong wind has sprung up, as the tree 
tops sway violently back and forth. 


If the party takes the faint path, they travel 
through the forest until they come to 
another ford. Once they cross the ford they 
eventually come to encounter area 8. Other 
wise, proceed with the following encounter. 

Tournament Note: Once the party disturbs 
the mad hermit here, they have few 
options-the hermit uses the trees he con 
trols to force the characters into a quicksand 
trap. This part of the action must flow rap 
idly and smoothly-do not let play slow 
down here. 


Cresting a rocky rise, the chanter can be 
seen amidst a group of trees. He is an 
ancient creature, his cracked and weath 
ered features making him appear much as 
a tree himself. He is clad in thin bark, and 
apparently has no concern for appear 
ances as his garment is tattered and his 
straggly dirty-gray beard and hair are tan 
gled and unkempt. He has not seen you, 
though his chanting has quickened its 
pace and the whole forest now seems alive 
and mimics his movements. 


The party is now free to take any action 
they wish, including going back to the other 
path. 

The man is Eveyd, a 315 year-old half-elf 
druid. 

Eveyd: AC 10; MV 12"; D 12; #AT 1; 
THACO 14; Dmg 1-6; S 10, Int 16, W 18, 
Dex 10, Con 12, Ch 15 

He owns the Gem ofSilvanus and a quarter 
staff. His spells are: 

First level: animal friendship, entangle, 
faerie fire (x2), pass without trace, speak 
with animals 

Second level: barkskin (x2), feign death, 
cure light wounds (x2), warp wood, heat 
metal 

Third level: call lightning, neutralize poi 
son, tree, protection from fire, stone shape 



Fourth level: call woodland beings, halluci 
natory forest, dispel magic, plant door, pro 
tection from lightning 

Fifth level: pass plant, control winds, com 
mune with nature 

Sixth level: cure critical wounds, wall of 
thorns 

Seventh level: transmute metal to wood 

Eveyd has cast barkskin on himself to give 
him AC 9, as well as protection from fire 
and protection from lightning. He has also 
cast hallucinatory forest to double the num 
ber of apparent trees. Notice that the player 
druid can walk through these phantasmal 
trees, but the others cannot, even if he tells 
them they are not real. 

Eveyd has lived alone in this same forest 
since a young man. Unfettered by the obli 
gations of society, he has devoted his talents 
to the art of animating trees. 

Trees: AC 2; MV 3 M ; HD 2; hp 8; #AT 1; 

THACO 16; Dmg 1-8 

This is accomplished by the chanting, and 
his power is such that all trees within the 
sound of his voice are thus affected. He has 
a telepathic link with them, thus being eas 
ily warned of intruders. There are literally 
hundreds of trees here that he may com 
mand, but they will only attack if the party 
attacks them or Eveyd first. 

Eveyd's advanced age makes him a link 
with the past, and his telepathic abilities 
enable him to pick up on the thoughts of all 
beings, thus he knows the party's quest. He 
knew Loring, and knows of the Wheel of 
Time, but remembers neither with fond 
ness. Loring accosted Eveyd, desiring the 
location of the Wheel, and Eveyd reluc 
tantly gave the information, for while he 
had no connection with the druids who at 
that time maintained the shrine, he was 
loathe to tell of its whereabouts to a stran 
ger, and a human at that. So he directed him 
to the magic pool (area 3), and Loring never 
found the Wheel. The remembrance of these 
events enrages Eveyd, and his wrath now 
falls on the characters. 


"By root and branch! Beset again am I by 
fools, but not by one but (fill in the num 
ber of live characters in the party) this 
time. I know ye seek the Wheel of Time, 
and ye will fare no better now than did 
the hapless Loring. Duped was I then, 
but never again! My true friends will aid 
me in your utter annihilation that I may 
be left in peace." 



The trees begin to move even as the 
strange creature finishes his tirade. 
Escape the way you came is impossible, 
but a small gap in the closing circle of 
writhing, menacing trees remains open. 


The animated trees force the players in the 
direction of the gap. Deciding to stand and 
fight is futile, for even if Eveyd is slain his 
trees ruthlessly attack to slay the invaders. 
The ring of trees continue to close and force 
the party into the next encounter area. 

If Eveyd is attacked, the trees hold off the 
party while he casts warp wood (if appropri 
ate), then heat metal on one attacker's armor. 
When it has reached maximum temperature, 
he casts transmute metal to wood. The now- 
wooden armor spontaneously bursts into 
flames, doing damage equivalent to a direct 
hit with four flasks of flaming oil for a total 
of 12d6 damage. (Tournament note: any 
magical metal armor fails its saving throw if 
this happens in tournament play.) 

Eveyd then casts wall of thorns, such that 
a rectangle is formed around himself, each 
end being 10 feet long and each side 20 feet 
long. Each wall thus formed is 10 feet high 
and 2 feet thick. If forced into melee, he uses 
the Gem ofSilvanus rather than his staff. If 
he has taken 50% or more damage, he casts 
plant door to escape to his forest, then free. 
Eveyd will feign death if it appears that he 
will die before he can escape. 

The Gem of Silvanus is a walnut-sized 
stone composed of compressed wood fibers 
whose use is restricted to dmids. Anyone 
touched or stmck in melee by this object is 
polymorphed into a tree of the wielder's 
choosing. A saving throw vs. polymorph is 
allowed, but half-elves save at -1 and elves 
at -3, being more susceptible to the effects. 

6. THE MARSH 


You manage to escape the closing ring of 
trees through the small gap in their line. 
The reason for the gap is now 
apparent-a low bluff and a shear drop 
of 15 feet onto flat ground awaits as the 
trees move in! 


The flat ground is quicksand, and the 
morass is too wide to jump to the other side. 
There is no way the party can avoid being 
forced from the bluff, though those with the 
ability to levitate will be able to escape the 
quicksand and see the coming rescue. 

It's not really the end, of course, but be as 
dramatic as possible in the description of 


6 









this scene. Any hurried attempts the party 
makes to extricate themselves prove fruit 
less. Ropes thrown at the animated trees are 
broken and thrown back, shrubbery along 
the edge pulls out by the roots, etc. Finish 
this quickly, as the only purpose of this sec 
tion is to lead smoothly into the next 
encounter. It should not waste the party's 
time or resources. 


As the party sinks into the morass, you 
hear shouting from the direction oppo 
site the bluff. Many colorfully dressed 
men are running up to the far edge of the 
quicksand. They are the last thing you 
see before you go under. 


7. THE GYPSIES 

The party is rescued from the quicksand by 
friendly gypsies and is taken to their camp. 
Those who sank in the quicksand awaken to 
find themselves once again on dry land, 
their clothing has been removed and hung 
from trees to dry, and their equipment 
neatly piled nearby. 


Looking around, many people can be 
seen. They are dressed in bright, almost 
gaudy, clothing and from the many wag 
ons, you surmise that they are nomadic 
gypsies. There are close to 50 men, 
women, and children busily engaged in 
everyday tasks. They pay you little 
heed, except for two standing nearby. 
The most commanding figure is a bear of 
a man, 6 feet tall and you'd guess 220 
pounds, dressed in a bright yellow, sat 
iny shirt, black pants and heavy leather 
boots. A vibrant green scarf fits snugly 
about his head and a gold loop dangles 
from his left ear. He is clean-shaven 
except for a bushy black moustache, and 
his breath reeks of garlic. Upon his 
shoulder sits a magnificent parrot, with a 
little hat of the same green material as his 
master's scarf. 

By his side stands a wizened, hunch 
backed old crone of indeterminate age 
who is clad in black homespun. The 
black shawl she has pulled over her head 
hides most of her features, though you 
spy a few wisps of steel gray hair, and her 
beak of a nose dominates her face. You 
are particularly stmck by the intensity of 
her eyes, like glittery, polished obsidian 
chips that dart nervously, missing noth 
ing. 




"Ah, good! They're finally coming 
around," says the man. "Esmerelda, 
gather the other women and cook some 
food. These strangers are cold and hun 
gry, and that's a fact. Shoo now! Go! 
Go!" The old crone acknowledges the 
command with a nod and a "Yes, 
Mikhale," then goes to do his bidding. 

Mikhale turns his attention back to 
you. "Well, my friends, and a near thing 
it was. We came up on that quicksand 
just as the last of you were going down. I 
don't know what trouble you're in, but 
I'll suffer no man, or lady for that matter, 
to drown in a slimy bog. Four of our lads 
dived in and pulled you to safety and, as 
you were unconscious, we brought you 
here to our humble camp. Rest your 
selves now, while we build up the fires 
and feast. If you need anything, simply 
ask." 


This is a band of gypsies who really did hap 
pen along at the right time. His story is true, 
as far as it goes. The party finds, however, 
that some of their items are missing (the 
items are only missing if the character lost 
consciousness): 

1) Lyman dagger, all money 

2) Silevran potion of healing 

3) Jenelle shield, all oil 

4) Tremblaine nothing 

5) Arwyn sandals 

6) Brutelle all money, torches 

7) Dugal all arrows +2, tinder box 

8) Ringo net, gem, wine skin 

9) Glynnis all money 

10) Berta nothing 

The gypsies will also have burned two (2) 
charges from the wand of lightning in an 
attempt to figure out what it is, so subtract 
these if applicable. If Mikhale or any of the 
other gypsies are confronted about these 
missing items, he shrugs his shoulders and 
states that obviously they were lost in the 
quicksand. Actually, the items have been 
removed from camp and buried in the for 
est. The party may search if they wish, but 
they never find them. After they have fin 
ished eating it is full dark and Mikhale 
engages them in conversation. The parrot is 
sitting on his shoulder, attentive but quiet. 


"Feeling better now? Good! None the 
worse for wear, I see. I've been itching to 
ask you about the map you've made. I 
see that you have come into this wood 


from the west, and we from the east. 
Interested in seeing what we've 
mapped?" 


The map that Mikhale produces is accurate, 
though he's left out some important details. 
If the party wishes to purchase a copy of the 
gypsy map, it costs them 100 gp, or a magi 
cal item. It shows the road from this point to 
area 8, the tunnel, and beyond to the edge of 
Loring's Wood. Mikhale continues: 


"You know, I could not help but over 
hear that madman with the funny trees 
shout something about Loring and the 
Wheel of something-or-other. I and my 
small band are searching for the Wheel 
of Fortune, once the pride of our clan but 
lost long ago by my great-great uncle 
Lenard, the gods curse his soul!" he mut 
ters, spitting on the ground. 

"Ever since that luckless day we have 
been vagabonds, unwelcomed and 
unwanted. Our search may never end, 
but I and my sons and their sons shall 
never turn from our task. But perhaps I 
can aid you. We passed a highly deco 
rated wooden wheel set in a shrine on 
our journey from the east. If this be your 
wheel, you need but follow the pathway 
toward the rising sun and you shall have 
an end to your troubles. Good night, 
weary travelers, and may Dagda watch 
over you. I and Bluebeard must be off to 
bed." With that he leaves you and climbs 
into a gaily decorated covered wagon, 
leaving Bluebeard on a perch by the cur 
tained opening. 


There is not much else to be done here. The 
gypsies all turn in for the night, leaving the 
party to their own devices, though there are 
six guards left to watch the wagons. If the 
party tries to investigate the woods they are 
warned away by the guards. The party must 
not find the secret trail to area 9 at this time. 
If the party wishes, they may talk with Blue 
beard; he even flies over to them if they 
whistle and offer some food. This way they 
can talk and not be overheard. 

Bluebeard's normal vocabulary consists 
of these four phrases, "Birds can't talk," 
"Won't say," "Tell your fortune?" and "How 
are you fixed for blades?" As long as he is 
questioned normally these are all the words 
he knows. Have fun with this! If the monk 
uses her speak-with-animals ability, or the 
druid a speak with animals spell, Bluebeard 


7 










volunteers some very interesting informa 
tion: 

1. Bluebeard has seen the secret path to the 
west that starts in the woods beyond the 
gypsy camp, and will suggest the party 
go that way. 

2. A few miles to the west is a large circle of 
standing stones guarded by a huge black 
lizard. 

3. Mikhale forgot to mention that there are 
two mountain giants on the eastward 
path. 

4. Bluebeard saw nothing of any circle or 
wheel when they passed through on the 
east road. 

Proceed to area 8 if the party chooses to fol 
low the path to the east, or area 9 if they fol 
low Bluebeard's advice and take the secret 
path to the west. 

8. A MOUNTAIN CAVE 


The way becomes broader as you head 
steadily eastward, and eventually the 
remains of the old road are discovered; 
more of the major route that once passed 
through Loring's Wood, long ago aban 
doned. The terrain is quite hilly and 
rocky, the foot hills of the mountains 
that can be dimly seen far away. There is 
a booming noise like thunder, though the 
sky holds no hint of a storm. 

The crumbling paving stones swing in a 
wide curve around the foot of a hill. Before 
you, the road runs straight through a nar 
row defile, heading sharply upwards. 
About 150 yards ahead you can make out 
the mouth of a cave, perfectly circular and 
highly carved, framing two gigantic fig 
ures. The thunder is their laughter, as they 
are engaged in some game, which you 
must have interrupted, for they stop, peer 
down at you, then say, "Step aside, ants, or 
suffer the consequences!" Stooping over, 
they each retrieve huge boulders from the 
roadside and hurl them down the narrow 
canyon. The stones bounce off the sides of 
the canyon and gain speed as they bear 
down on you. 


The two mountain goats are just passing 
through, camping here only for a short 
while to scout out the country. 

Mountain goats (2): AC 4; MV 12"; HD 12; 
hp 50,60; #AT 1; THACO 9; Dmg 4dl0; 
SA hurl rocks up to 20" for 2d8 



Mikhale and his gypsies bribed their way 
through this pass with a wagonload of wine, 
but didn't see fit to warn the party. Who 
knows? If the party is destroyed the gypsies 
might be able to talk the giants out of their 
loot! The giants do not negotiate with the 
party. They hurl boulders until the party is 
close enough to melee (two volleys at least), 
then strike with their massive fists. 

If the party vanquishes the giants, they 
find the cave to be the entrance to a tunnel 
on the old road, nothing more. The only 
thing of value in the giants' possessions is a 
faded map that shows the beginning of the 
secret trail at area 7. Alternately, the party 
could go to the gypsy camp. The gypsies are 
gone, but the ranger or druid are able to find 
the secret trail if the area is searched. 

Characters who follow the road east tra 
vel for half a day before leaving the forest. It 
takes half a day to return to the tunnel 
entrance where they met the giants. 

9. THE CIRCLE OF STONE 


Travel through the thickets of the secret 
path is difficult, but not impossible. One 
striking thing is that all normal forest 
sounds have ceased. In fact the silence is 
oppressive, much like the feeling just 
before a violent storm strikes. Through the 
wild tangle, tall stone shapes rise among 
the trees, and from amidst these emanates 
a dim, though definite, white glow. A tell 
tale thump and the swish of a heavy body 
moving through leaves and forest debris is 
your only warning before a huge form, 
blacker than the pit, with evil yellow eyes 
rears in front of you and opens its gaping 
maw. Black dragon! 


The monster is an old black dragon. 

Black dragon: AC 3; MV 12724"; HD 8; 
hp 48; #AT 3; THACO 12; Dmg 1^/1- 
4/3d6; SA acid breath 

He is not exactly guardian of the shrine, as 
his evilness does not permit him to enter it, 
but this is his territory and he defends it. 
After his initial acid attack, he takes to the 
air and swoops in twice more, using its 
breath weapon (48 points of damage, save 
for half). Determine the victims randomly, 
but assume only one per breath unless the 
party deliberately closes ranks. After using 
his three breath attacks he attempts to land 
(for 3d6 damage) on a random character, 
who may dodge by saving vs. death, modi 



fied by dexterity bonus if applicable. The 
dragon then engages in melee to the finish. 


Safe for the moment, you now have the 
opportunity to examine the stones. The 
tall ones form a rough circle, and enough 
of them have lintels bridging the tops of 
two uprights that it is possible to imagine 
that all the monoliths were once so 
capped. The hub of the circle is domi 
nated by a huge stone disc, deeply 
carved with symbols and runes and 
mounted horizontally on carved repre 
sentations of serpents. In the center of 
the disc is a pinnacle about 10 feet tall, 
topped by a crystal. Emanating from this 
crystal are two brilliant beams of light, 
though the source of the illumination is 
not visible. The vivid shafts of coruscat 
ing (sparkling) light strike the rim of the 
disc at two distinct and separate points. 


This, of course, is the Wheel of Time. The 
crystal acts like a prism to refract beams of 
light. The conjunction of the constellations 
Bazel and the Seven Daughters occurs every 
40 years. It results in an extremely bright 
light, bright enough to activate the crystal. 
The other light source is the moon, whose 
orbital eccentricities result in its light strik 
ing the crystal from different angles. These 
two light sources are refracted so that con 
centrated beams strike the rim of the Wheel 
at different points. The timing of events is 
accomplished by measuring the circumfer 
ence of the Wheel between the points. The 
measuring device in this case is the magic 
glove the party should have picked up in 
area 3. 

Six glove widths exactly measures the cir 
cumference between the two light beams, 
thus proving this part of the Prophecy. If the 
players do not have the glove, they cannot 
verify the time, even though they may guess 
at the proper method. Even with the glove, 
they must state that they are using it as a 
ruler to measure the distance between the 
beams at the rim of the Wheel to succeed. 

If the party fails to find the glove, then it 
isn't time for Llywelyn to return (though 
you can always introduce the glove into 
other adventures if desired). If the players 
can't figure out how the glove works, but 
wants to continue the quest, always send a 
learned NPC scholar back to the Wheel with 
them-the conjunction can be assumed to 
last several weeks in this case. 


8 
































Locksmith 


PLAYERS' BACKGROUND 


You have completed the first task in the 
quest to restore the lost king, Llywelyn, 
to the throne of Pellham. In Loring's 
Wood, you found the Wheel of Time and 
proved that the time spoken of in the 
Prophecy was at hand. Now the sene 
schal Gwydion has summoned you again 
for another task that, if successfully 
completed, hastens the return of good 
King Llywelyn. 

Lord Krell, also known as Krell the 
Robber Baron, has sent word by trusted 
messenger to Gwydion that he has in his 
possession a set of keys, from antiquity. 
If the council is interested in them, he is 
prepared to sell. 

Krell has justly earned both his titles. 
He is a robust fighter who honed his craft 
early in raids against ores and hobgob 
lins to the south and east, and single- 
handedly slew the dragon Hoarfrost in 
the wintry wilds of the Caspan Moun 
tains. The hoard of the dragon was vast, 
and allowed Krell to build both a forti 
fied manor house on a plateau overlook 
ing the only pass through the mountains 
south of Widdershin, and a gatehouse 
astride the main road at that point. As he 
controls the traffic, Krell also exacts a 
toll for passage. Some think his fees are 
outrageous, hence his second title. 

The seneschal has done very little to 
hinder Krell in his business dealings, as 
Krell has on more than one occasion 
thwarted invasion attempts through the 
pass and has never molested a tax collec 
tor. 

The purchase of these keys has been 
approved, and you are to go to Krell 
Manor to settle the matter by the time of 
the new moon, a fortnight hence. The 
keys, lost for centuries, are believed to be 
the ones used to seal Llywelyn's tomb; 
how Krell came by them is unknown, but 
it is obvious he does not know their value 
as he has asked the ridiculously low price 
of only 10,000 gp for the set. According to 
Gwydion, each key should be a foot long 
and sparingly bejeweled, three of silver, 
three of gold and three of iron. 

Gwydion has entrusted to you a small 
chest containing the 10,000 gp in gems 
and jewelry. You are to time your jour 
ney to arrive at Krell's stronghold at the 
time of the new moon, seal the bargain 
and return with the keys. 


DUNGEON MASTER'S NOTES 

Unknown to the seneschal, Krell has sent 
out more than one messenger in an effort to 
sell the keys. He has been contacted by 
another interested party. He has agreed to 
meet with them as well, and on the same 
day! Krell really does not know the signifi 
cance of the keys, though he is smart 
enough to realize that they are obviously a 
set. He keeps them in a velvet bag sealed 
with a braided gold wire, and does not open 
it for inspection-caveat emptor! He has, in 
fact, removed and hidden one of the iron 
keys. Once the deception is discovered, he 
sells the remaining key for another 10,000 

gp. 

It must be emphasized that Krell's strong 
hold is very strong. There is no hope for the 
party to go in and take the keys by force. 
While it might be possible to slay Krell him 
self, the 100 or so troops and other retainers 
at the manor can easily overwhelm anyone 
daring to use force! 

A key feature of this adventure is the 
delay assessed against the party when they 
choose a course of action that slows them 
down. Keep careful track of the number of 
turns the party is delayed. The more the 
player party is delayed, the longer start the 
evil party has to make its escape. Delays are 
specified in the encounter key. It is impera 
tive that you keep an accurate tally of 
delays. 

Time and Movement: The map is scaled so 
that a character mounted on a light horse 
can move 3 hexes in one game turn, while a 
character on foot can move 1 hex in a game 
turn. 

Horses: For tournament purposes, all char 
acters are assumed to be mounted on light 
warhorses. 

Warhorses, light: AC 7; MV 24"; HD 2; hp 
12; #AT 2; THACO 16; Dmg 1-4/1-4 

Campaign note: Random wilderness 
encounters occur only if the party wanders 
off the main road, or takes more than a day 
to complete this adventure. 


MOUNTAIN 

RANDOM ENCOUNTER TABLE 

Die 

Roll Encounter 

1 1-6 brown bears 

2 2-8 hill giants 

3 1-6 griffons 

4 20-50 merchant caravan 

5 6-9 NPC party 

6 patrol 

7 1040 pilgrims 

8 2-20 wolves 


THE TRAIL TO 
KRELL'S MANOR 

1. THE GRIFFONS 


It is the last morning before the night of 
the new moon. You expect to reach Krell 
Manor at noon, in another two hours of 
easy riding. The road twists and turns 
through the mountains, getting steeper 
all the while. For some time, a group of 
six black-cloaked horsemen has been vis 
ible on the road about a half mile ahead. 
As they ride behind the intervening 
shoulder of a wooded slope, your obser 
vation of them is suddenly interrupted 
by shrill cries from above. 


There is effectively no surprise here, as the 
two griffons are closing to the attack. 

Griffons (2): AC 3; MV 12 '730"; HD 7; hp 
27, 35; #AT 3; THACO 13; Dmg 1-4/1- 
4/2d8 

The griffons are not in league with the evil 
faction. This is simply an unfortunate 
encounter for the players. The party has 
time for one missile attack (two if they don't 
arm for melee). Anyone who attempts to 
ride in pursuit of the horsemen is attacked 
by a griffon in preference to other targets. 

2. HAZARDS OF THE TRAIL 


The mysterious horsemen are now out of 
sight, and you continue your winding 
journey to Lord Krell's manor. The road 
becomes rougher as you travel, and the 
lead horse shies away from a small slide 
of hand-sized rocks clattering down the 
steep slope to your right. 


Scenarios 

PLAYERS' BACKGROUND 


10 






3. KRELL'S GATE 


The trickle of rocks is the danger sign of an 
impending rockslide trap. If the party halts 
and sends a character able to find traps 
ahead, a trip wire is found mere inches in 
front of the lead horse. A dwarf can verify 
new construction upon close examination of 
the rocky slope. A ranger who looks for 
tracks notes that a horse with a broken shoe 
has recently passed here. 

If the slide is triggered, the front two 
ranks of the party are hit by the falling rocks 
and boulders. Each rider or mount involved 
takes 2d8 damage (9 points of damage in 
tournament play). 

The mounted group ahead of the charac 
ters are representatives of an evil faction 
that is intent on getting into Llywelyn's 
tomb. Krell has agreed to meet with them 
today as well, figuring first come, first 
served. While the party was engaged with 
the griffons, the evil party stopped and hast 
ily rigged the deadfall. 


The road continues up into the moun 
tains, climbing a little more gently now 
than before. As you crest a small rise, 
Lord Krell's manor is visible on a plateau 
overlooking the pass. One hundred feet 
below, a fortified gatehouse, much like a 
castle, spans the road and completely 
fills the pass to a height of 40 feet. 
Numerous men-at-arms can be seen 
walking its crenalated battlements, and 
more wait before its oversized portcullis. 


When the characters approach the guards 
near the portcullis, read the following. 


Ten men, clad in chain mail and tunics of 
black and crimson, each armed with a 
halberd and a club, and a large fellow 
toting a two-handed sword, stand guard. 
As the guards snap to attention, their 


leader strides to the center of the road 
and stops, legs wide spread and sword 
held firmly in front of him. "Greetings, 
travelers. State your business at Krell's 
Gate." 


If asked if another party has arrived, the ser 
geant says that another group rode through 
six hours ago. (If any players ask how far 
the other party was ahead, tell them the 
other party should be less than an hour 
ahead.) This gatehouse is quite well forti 
fied. 

Gate Guard: 

Sergeant: AS 3; MV 6"; F4; hp 34; #AT 1; 
THACO 15; Dmg 1-10+3; S 17; Int 12; W 
11; Dex 15; Con 16; Ch 8 
The sergeant is in scale mail with a two- 
handed swo rd+ 2 

Heavy footmen (10): AC 5; MV 6"; F0; hp 
6 each; #AT 1; THACO 20; Dmg 1-10 or 
1-6 


















The footmen have scale mail and shields, 
halberd, and club. 

On the battlements: 

Leader: AC 4; MV 9"; F3; hp 20; #AT 1; 
THACO 18; Dmg l-6fl 
The leader wears chainmail and has a 
military pick. 

Heavy crossbowmen (20): AC 5; MV 9"; 
F0; hp 6 each; #AT 1; THACO 20; Dmg 
1-4+1 or 1-6 

They wear chainmail and have crossbows 
and short swords. 

At each portcullis: 

Leader: AC 4; MV 9"; F3; hp 17; #AT 1; 
THACO 18; Dmg 2-8 

The leader has chainmail, shield, and 
broadsword. 

Light crossbowmen (20): AC 5; MV 9"; F0; 
hp 5 each; #AT 1; THACO 20; Dmg 14 
or 1-8 

They have chainmail, light crossbows and 
military forks. 

Reserves: 

Heavy footmen (30): AC 5; MV 6"; F0; hp 
6 each; #AT 1; THACO 20; Dmg 1-10 or 
1-6 

The footmen have scale mail, halberds, and 
clubs. 

Light horse leader: AC 4; MV 9724"; F2; 
hp 15; #AT 1; THACO 20; Dmg 1-6 or 1-8 
The leader has banded mail, shield, javelins, 
and longsword. 

Light horsemen (20): AC 6; MV9724"; F0; 
hp 5 each; #AT 1; THACO 20; Dmg 1-6 
or 1-8 

The horsemen have ring mail, shield, jave 
lins (3), and longsword. 

Horses: AC 7; MV 24"; HD 2; hp 9 each; 
#AT 2; THACO 16; Dmg 14/14 

The party now has three options: 

OPTION 1: ATTACK. The description of 
the defenses at the gate area should be suf 
ficient to deter such action, but if they 
decide to fight anyway, have the gate guard 
retreat into the gatehouse as the portcullis is 
lowered, while the bowmen pepper the 
party with quarrels. Krell is expecting them, 
but he brooks no violence or high 
handedness from them, even if they are 
agents of the High Council. The sergeant 
tells them that he will deal with them when 
they leam better manners. Assess three 
turns' delay and rerun encounter 3. 


OPTION 2: FOLLOW THE NPCS. The 
guards exact a toll of 10 gp per person and 
open the gate. You may describe the interior 
of the gatehouse to them (buildings 1 to 7). 
After leaving the gatehouse, the party 
should be told that they see no one ahead of 
them. If a ranger noted the broken horse 
shoe mark at the rock slide and checks 
again, tell him that no such mark is appar 
ent in the tracks on the road. Announce the 
periodic passage of turns. Penalize the party 
one turn each turn they say they will pro 
ceed with the chase. There is nothing at 
Point E at this time, as the evil party is still 
in the manor. When the player characters 
decide to give up and return to the gate, 
assess half the number of turns delay for the 
return trip. (If they decide to return after 
only one warning, they lose only one turn.) 
Rerun encounter 3. 

OPTION 3 SEE KRELL. The guards let the 
party through the portcullis (you may 
describe the interior of the gatehouse to the 
players, buildings 1 to 7), then open another 
that opens onto a path up the mountainside 
to the wide plateau and the manor house 
proper. Go to building 8. 

THE GATEHOUSE 

1. Cavalry Barracks. These are quarters for 
the light horsemen (detailed in encounter 3) 
when off duty. 

2. Stable. There are 40 light horses kept in 
the gatehouse. 

Horses (40): AC 7; MV 24"; HD 2; hp 9 
each; #AT 2; THACO 16; Dmg 14/14 

Twenty of them are stabled here at any 
given time. 

3. Corral. Another 20 light horses are kept 
here, ready for immediate action. 

4. Smithy. The blacksmith is mainly occu 
pied with shoeing the horses, though he is 
quite capable of making minor repairs to 
armor and putting a keen edge on a sword. 

5. Storage. This building contains fodder 
and tack for the horses. 

6. Foodstuff Storage. Also, the sergeant- 
of-the-guard maintains private quarters 
here and keeps a strongbox to hold the tolls 
he collects. It presently contains 500 gp in 
assorted coins. 



7. Yard. Exercise and training area for both 
cavalry and foot soldiers. 

KRELL'S MANOR 

All the action in this part of the adventure 
occurs in just a few rooms of the manor 
house, though all rooms are detailed for 
completeness. Likewise, the rest of the 
buildings on the plateau are included to give 
the party an idea of Krell's holding. Remem 
ber, this is Lord Krell's personal property, 
and visitors cannot simply wander around. 

8. Inner Barbican. Two 30-foot-diameter by 
30-foot-high towers connected by a 20-foot- 
wide by 30-foot-long by 20-foot-high build 
ing are set in the curtain wall that totally 
surrounds Lord Krell's holding. This fortifi 
cation, once serving the same function as 
the gatehouse, is manned by 20 heavy foot 
men led by a captain. 

Heavy footmen (20): AC 5 (scale mail and 

shield); MV 6"; F0; hp 6 each; #AT 1; 

THACO 20*; Dmg 1-10 (halberd) or 1-6 

(club) 

Captain: AC 3 (banded mail and shield); 

MV 6"; F3; hp 18; #AT 1; THACO 18; 

Dmg 1-8 (battle axe) 

They do not look for much trouble since the 
guards on the road do not allow anyone 
access to the path without proper clearance. 

The captain asks the party to state its 
business. If the party decides to fight their 
way in, for some reason, go to OPTION 1; 
if they state that they are emissaries from 
the Council of Widdershin to see Lord Krell, 
they are passed through the gate and 
escorted to the manor house proper (9). 

9. Manor House. This is the most imposing 
structure on the plateau, and houses Krell 
and his more intimate associates. It is a two- 
story stone building, and itself well forti 
fied, reflecting Krell's military background. 
After the party has cleared the barbican, 
they will enter the manor through the dou 
ble doors in the front. (See the Key to the 
Manor House for further details.) 

10. Guard Barracks 1. The ground floor of 
this two story building is a common area, 
while the upper floor provides sleeping 
quarters for up to 20 men. Their com 
mander has a small comer of the ground 
floor to himself. All guards are presently in 
the mess hall. 


12 



11. Guard Barracks 2. See building 10. 

12. Temple of Dunatis. Hendrik, the local 
cleric, conducts organized worship of this 
minor god once a month. 

13. Armory. Weapons of all types may be 
found here, enough to equip 300 men. 

14. Armorer's Quarters. The forge and anvil 
dominates this small building. The armorer is 
capable of making any type of armor, though 
he specializes in chain and scale mail. 

15. Bowyer/Fletcher. Few of Krell's troops 
use regular bows, so this fellow is more 
adept at the making of crossbows and quar 
rels. There are 30 light crossbows and 600 
quarrels here now. 

16. Stable. Six heavy warhorses are kept 
here as mounts for Lord Krell and his com 
panions. 

Warhorses (6): AC 7 (2 if barded); MV 15 M ; 
HD 3+3, hp 12,14,16,17,17, 20; #AT 3; 
THACO 16; Dmg 1-8/1-8/1-3 

17. Blacksmith. Normal smithy work is car 
ried on here, including all kinds of metal 
repair (except to armor), shoeing horses, 
and making and repairing tack. 

18. Corral. Four medium horses and four 
mules are kept here because of their brutish 
nature. They attack anyone who comes up 
to the fence. 

Horses, medium (4): AC 7; MV 18"; HD 
2+2; hp 8, 9, 11, 16; #AT 3; THACO 16; 
Dmg 1-6/1-6/1-3 

Mules (4): AC 7; MV 12"; HD 3; hp 14, 15, 
15, 17; #AT 1 or 2; THACO 16; Dmg 1- 
2 / 1-6 

19. Vegetable Garden. 

20. Storage. This building holds foodstuffs 
and normal clothing for the men. 

21. Storage. This area is for animal feed 
and bedding. 

22. Livestock Pen. This area contains 40 
sheep. 

23. Servants Quarters. 

24. Guard Barracks 3. Same as building 10. 

25. Guard Barracks 4. Same as building 10. 



KEY TO THE MANOR HOUSE 
9a. Foyer 


You are led up the graceful, curved steps 
to the double doors which open into a 
large chamber. There are two guards 
here. Each wears a black surcoat over his 
armor with a crimson panther emblem 
on the left breast. The room is lit by six 
oil lamps, one on either side of each door 
and one in the center of the west and 
north walls. 


Guards (2): AC 5 (scale mail and shield); 

MV 6"; F0; hp 6 each; #AT 1; THACO 

20*; Dmg 1-10 (halberd) or 1-6 (club) 

The party is met by Carruthers. 

Carruthers: AC 9; MV 12"; F4; hp 30; #AT 

1; THACO 18; Dmg 14 (dagger); S 13, 

Lit 16, W 15, Dex 15, Con 16, Ch 16 

He is a man in his late 60's. His build is slim, 
though he sports a slight paunch. He wears 
his gray hair long, making no attempt to 
cover his receding hairline. He is clad all in 
gray, with the crimson panther emblem 
sewn to his tunic. 

Carruthers is Lord Krell's most faithful 
adviser, having been a member of Krell's 
father's household. When Krell came into 
his own, he brought Carruthers along with 
him. He is quite shrewd and totally loyal. 
With strangers he assumes the mein of a 
menial servant. He asks the party to wait 
while he announces their arrival to his lord. 
If the party decides to wait for his return no 
delay is assessed. 

The characters may try to force their way 
into Krell's presence at any time. The guards 
do not attack unless the party draws weap 
ons or displays obvious hostile intentions. If 
the party is taking pains not to start a fight 
they get in to see Krell (9g) this way with no 
further delay. 

The party's arrival has placed Krell in an 
awkward situation, as he has just sold the 
keys to another group (the black-clad horse 
men). Upon hearing Carruther's message, 
they offer Krell an additional 5,000 gp to 
delay the party while they make their escape 
through a rear exit. Never one to turn down 
gold, Krell and Carruthers hatch this subter 
fuge. 

Realizing that these adventurers cannot 
be kept simply waiting for very long, it is 
made to appear that Krell is enraged at 
being interrupted. Krell cuffs Carruthers on 



the face hard enough to draw blood, and 
Carruthers delays the party as long as possi 
ble. 


After a minute, you hear shouting and 
the sound of a blow. "You doddering old 
fool! I told you I was not to be bothered 
now. Get out!" A thoroughly cowed 
Carruthers comes back into the foyer 
and says, "My lord respectfully asks that 
you take the air in the garden and refresh 
yourselves from your journey with meat 
and wine. He is engaged in some urgent 
private matters, and will be with you 
shortly. Please follow me." 


If the party follows Carruthers, go to the 
garden 9b. 

9b. The Garden. It is a beautiful place, with 
gravel paths running through a well-kept 
lawn and many rosebushes and flowerbeds. 
There are four stone benches, a finely 
carved fountain, and four guards. There are 
windows in the south wall that allow the 
characters to look into the mess hall (9f) and 
see all the troops eating. The windows in the 
north wall looking into the Great Hall (9g) 
are covered by heavy crimson draperies. 
The party cannot see in here. 

Carruthers leads the party here, and 
immediately a magnificent repast is brought 
to them. But the subterfuge continues. One 
of the characters spots a piece of paper 
under a wine ewer. It says, "Krell means to 
sell you false goods, but I know where the 
real keys are. Leave the garden by the west 
door and I will take you to them, (signed) 
Carruthers." Shortly after, the four guards 
in the garden are summoned into the Great 
Hall, leaving the party alone in the garden. 
There is no delay for this. 

If the party chooses to follow these 
instructions, go to 9c; if they enter the Great 
Hall, go to 9g; if they decide to sit and wait, 
tell them a turn has passed and they are still 
waiting, though a servant comes in bearing 
more food and drink. Each turn they wait is 
another turn of delay. After four turns, they 
are summoned to the Great Hall. 

9c. Hallway. This is simply a hallway 
between the kitchen and the Great Hall. If 
they meet Carruthers here after eating (see 
9b), he takes them into the kitchen (9d). 

9d. Kitchen. All the cooking is done in the 
three fireplaces, and there are two tables 
and two cabinets used for preparation and 
storage respectively. There is also a stairway 


13 




down to the cellar (9e); Carruthers leads the 
party here if he is with them. The half dozen 
servants in the kitchen know nothing of 
value. 

9e. Cellar. The party is led here by Car 
ruthers (see 9b) to play out the charade he 
and Krell have set up. Muttering vile epi 
thets, Carruthers rummages around in an 
endless jumble of boxes, crates, etc., in 
search of the keys, which, of course, are not 
here. Carruthers makes occasional exclama 
tions of triumph (every second box) and 
digs frantically in something, only to come 
up empty-handed. Assess the party 1/2 turn 
for each box, crate, etc. they let him exam 
ine. Round up any fractional turns. When 
they leave, take them back to the garden 
(9b). 

9f. Mess Hall. There are two fireplaces and 
four 50-foot-long tables. Presently there are 
50 guards (AC 5 scale mail and shield); MV 
6 F0; hp 6 each; #AT 1; THACO 20*; Dmg 
1-10 (halberd) or 1-6 (club)) taking a meal. 

9g. Great Hall. Immediately inside the 
door is a 40-foot-long table, head end to the 
west. Sixteen upholstered wing benches are 
spaced around the table, and three finely- 
wrought gold candelabras sit upon it at 10- 
foot intervals. The remains of a meal can be 
seen amidst the rich plates and silverware. 
Beyond the table, slightly left and right of 
center are two 10-foot-square fireplaces. 
Each is covered by a chimney, hung by 
chains from the ceiling and fitted with a 10- 
foot-square smoke collector. Between them 
hangs a circular, ironbound wooden chan 
delier, the light supplied by eight lit oil 
lamps around its rim. A stairway up along 
the west wall provides access to the second 
floor rooms and balcony, and there are four 
shields (one a shield +2), 3 spears (one a 
spear +3), a light crossbow, a case of four 
quarrels +2, a bastardsword+1 and a javelin 
+2 hanging on the walls. 

There are six guards on duty, located at 
the points denoted by "G." 

Guards (6): AC 5 (chain mail); MV 9"; FI; 
hp 7 each; #AT 1; THACO 20; Dmg 1-10 
(halberd) or 1-6 (short sword) 

Three more guards, armed with short sword 
and light crossbow (Dmg 1-4), stand on the 
balcony. 

Lord Krell (see the Major NPC section) sits 
at the head of the table. He is a slim man, 
about 6 feet tall with a thin, aristocratic 


face, piercing blue eyes and a high, rounded 
forehead underneath wavy, light brown 
hair. He sports a thin, well-trimmed mus 
tache the same color as his hair, though 
sprinkled with gray. While witty and very 
charming, he is a rogue, constantly seeking 
to better his position in life. He is dressed in 
black and crimson, the colors of his house. 
The wide sleeved tunic he wears hides the 
bracers of defense AC 2, which he always 
wears when not armored. He wears a ring of 
telekinesis on the third finger of his right 
hand. 

If the party tries to cut their way in, or if 
fighting breaks out as a result of the negotia 
tions, suggested tactics for Krell and his 
friends are given later. Otherwise, Krell 
addresses them: 


"Greetings to you, emmissaries of the 
Council of Widdershin. I am Lord Krell, 
at your service. Please be seated and we 
will talk." 


Make small talk as desired until someone 
brings up the subject of the keys (no delay is 
assessed here). 


"I am truly sorry you have journeyed so 
far for nothing. The antique keys have 
been sold to someone else who made a 
more generous offer, which, as I am a 
man of business, I could not refuse. I 
regret any inconvenience this has caused 
you and the Council. But stay and dine 
with me; you are welcome to stay at 
Krell Manor for as long as you'd like." 


The dinner offer should appear bogus to the 
party, as it is obvious that a group of people 
has just finished eating. If they accept the 
offer, penalize them three turns. If they 
want to leave, let them; the only place they 
can go is back to the road. If they refuse the 
meal and press Krell for details concerning 
who purchased the keys, he tells them that 
they were a group of five, all clad in black, 
who arrived shortly before the party. He 
does not tell how much was paid, though he 
laughingly tells the characters he was well 
paid to delay them. For a small fee (100 gp) 
he tells the party which way they went. 

If the party pays the bribe, Krell tells 
them that their competition left hurriedly by 
a back exit that opens onto a rough moun 
tain path. This path eventually joins the 
main road some distance to the east. 


If one of the characters is very astute and 
inquires if they took their horses on the 
path, Krell tells them, "No, their half-ore 
lackey took all the horses down to the junc 
tion to meet them there. The rest chose the 
mountain path once I told them of a small 
cave thereon recently occupied by a young 
dragon that I had not had time to deal with. 
There is no cave or dragon, but apparently 
their greed got the better of them, as I 
thought it would. They will be some time at 
their search for it, so I have no doubt that 
you could catch them." 

The party now has two choices. If they 
decide to follow the evil party down the 
path, go to encounter 4; if they decide to 
ride to the junction, go to Point E of the 
mountain path. 

Melee in the Great Hall 

ROUND 1: 

The room guards interpose between Krell 
and the party. The balcony guards fire at 
enemy spell casters. 

Krell shouts for aid, using his ring of teleki 
nesis to disrupt a party spell caster by rais 
ing him 20 feet and dropping him for 2-12 
(2d6) points of damage. Doors open on the 
main floor and balcony. Laisir (room 1) and 
5 guards (room j) emerge. 

ROUND 2: 

The guards and Laisir fight. 

Krell telekineses the shield +2 and spear +3 to 
himself. 

Hendrik (room q) arrives on the balcony 
and casts a silence spell on an enemy spell 
caster. 

Marbuul (room r) arrives on the balcony 
and casts charm person on a different spell 
caster. 

ROUND 3: 

The guards, Laisir, and Krell fight. 

Hendrik casts light in the eyes of the nearest 
fighter threatening Krell. Marbuul slows as 
many of the party as possible. 

ROUND 4: 

Fifty guards arrive from the mess hall (room 
9f). 

Krell, Laisir, and guards fight. 

Hendrik uses hold person against a spell 
caster. 

Marbuul uses magic missile to advantage. 

Notes: If player characters get to the bal 
cony, the balcony guards fight to protect 
Hendrick and Marbuul. If hard pressed, 
Hendrick fights to the death, but Marbuul 




drinks his potion of polymorph self, turns 
into a bird, and flies out a window. 

If the party fights and loses, they are 
delayed a total of six additional turns. If 
they win and either Krell or Carruthers is 
alive, the penalty is two turns plus the time 
spent fighting (round fractions up). 

Private Quarters (for non-tournament use) 

Rooms 9i through 9r are not entered by the 
party during tournament play as the guards 
prevent such action. 

9i. Bathing Room. This area is dominated 
by two large pools, one 30-feet-by- 15-feet 
filled with cold water and another 18-feet- 
by-15-feet with heated water. Both are 3 
foot deep. Ten pegs to hold clothes are 
driven into the west and north walls, and 
there is a table stacked with crimson towels 
set against the north wall. The room is 
vacant. 

9j. Lower Guard Room. The room is fur 
nished with three tables, twelve chairs and 
nine bunkbeds. There are five guards here 
now. 


Guards (5): AC 5 (chain mail); MV 9 M ; FI; 
hp 6 each; #AT 1; THACO 20; Dmg 1-10 
(halberd) or 1-6 (short sword) 

They are clad in the crimson and black liv 
ery of their master. 

9k. Library and Study. A 12-foot-by-20- 
foot crimson carpet covers the floor along 
the north wall. Upon it sits an oaken desk 
and chair of fine workmanship. The east 
and west walls are lined with 8-foot-high 
bookshelves, packed with bound volumes 
and scrolls. 

91. Laisir's Room. The living quarters of 
the captain of Lord Krell's personal body 
guard, Laisir (see 9g). He is readying for 
duty, so he is fully armored. 

9m. Treasure Room. Here Lord Krell keeps 
the most valuable goods liberated from mer 
chant caravans and private adventuring, 
including bolts of silk, spices, craft work, 
manufactured goods and works of art. 


9n. Guest Bedroom. This serves as the 
quarters for VIPs who must spend more 
than one day doing business with Lord 
Krell. The room is furnished with a com 
fortable, four-poster bed and an armoire 
(standing closet). A small fireplace in the 
west wall provides heat. 

Second Floor 

9o. Krell's Bedroom. The accouterments 
are similar to those in 91, only more opulent. 
A bed, a dresser, and a cabinet sit against 
the south wall, a fireplace in the west wall, 
and an overstuffed chair in the northwest 
corner. A false bottom in the middle drawer 
of the dresser provides a hiding place for 
Krell's chain mail +1, potion of heroism and 
potion of invulnerability. 

9p. Living Room. Krell privately entertains 
important guests here, as well as Hendrik, 
Marbuul, and Laisir. A couch occupies the 
southwest comer, a large table sits in the 
northwest comer, and a desk, flanked by two 
large candelabras, and chair rest against the 
east wall. A 20-foot-long picture window 
provides a stunning view of the barracks. 


15 















































9q. Hendrik's Quarters. The room is lav 
ishly furnished with tapestries and draperies 
lining the west wall. Shelving and a cabinet, 
separated by a table and one chair, on the 
east wall contain private papers and various 
books and scrolls of a religious nature. 
There is no bed, but a pile of cushions in the 
northwest comer serves that purpose. 

9r. Marbuul's Quarters and Laboratory. 

The sparse furnishings here consist of three 
long tables and a small bed. Shelving in the 
northeast comer holds many jars, bottles, 
and boxes of ingredients for Marbuul's 
experiments. 

THE MOUNTAIN PATH 

The adventurers are fairly close to the NPC 
party if they have played well up to this 
point. 

4. THE TUNNEL 


A guard party of 30 footmen, assigned 
by Lord Krell, escorts you to the fortified 
rear gate of Krell Manor. As the heavy 
iron gates are unlocked and opened, 
ahead of you stretches a tunnel through 
the mountainside. The guards close the 
gates behind you. Walking down the 
tunnel, you see a glow ahead of you. The 
light is not coming from the outside, 
however. The door at the end of the tun 
nel is tightly closed and a small glowing 
orb hangs in midair before it. 


The glowing ball is a delayed blast fireball. 
The evil party (see the Major NPC section), 
figuring that Krell would not be able to 
delay the characters long, is covering its 
own retreat. Pyros waited near the tunnel 
exit until he heard the gates close at the 
other end and the approaching footsteps of 
the party. He then cast the delayed blast fire 
ball from a scroll, a wizard lock on the tun 
nel exit door, then a dimension door to 
rejoin his group. 

Tournament notes: The fireball explodes 
four rounds after the party reaches the door, 
and its blast entirely fills the tunnel (which is 
15'xl5'xl40'). Running back to the manor 
is futile, as the gates are now locked from 
the other side and no one can open them in 
time. A detect magic reveals the door has 
been enspelled, and a knock or dispel magic 
breaks the wizard lock. Once this is done, 
the door opens on the first push. Any char 



acter who is still in the tunnel when the fire 
ball explodes takes 50 points of damage (25 
if a saving throw vs. spells is made). 

The Pursuit 

The evil party stops at Points A, B, and C to 
set traps (detailed later) to slow the charac 
ters. At this point, total the number of turns 
the party has been delayed. A party pursu 
ing along the mountain path is ambushed at 
Point D if it starts with 4 or more turns of 
delay. A party taking the main road is 
ambushed at Point D if it starts 7 or more 
turns behind. At 6 turns, both groups reach 
Point D simultaneously; at 5 or fewer turns 
delay, the player characters can set up an 
ambush of their own. Party movement 
begins when they exit the tunnel or the 
north gate of the gatehouse. See the Delay 
Table for how long certain actions take in 
this pursuit situation. 

Delay Table 


Action Turns 


Move 1 hex along path 1 

Detect and remove a trap 1 

Bypass trap by going off path 2 
Set a trap (evil party only) 3 

Triggering a trap 3 


Use the Evil Party Table to determine the 
position of the evil party on any turn. 

Evil Party Table 

Turns 

Delay Evil Party Position 


0 A; two turns left on trap 

1 A; one turn left on trap 

2 A; trap completed this turn 

3 1 hex beyond A 

4 B; three turns left on trap 

5 B; two turns left on trap 

6 B; one turn left on trap 

7 B; trap completed this turn 

8 1 hex beyond B 

9 2 hexes beyond B 

10 C; three turns left on trap 

11 C; two turns left in trap 

12 C; one turn left on trap 

13 C; trap completed this turn 

14 1 hex beyond C 

15 2 hexes beyond C 

16 3 hexes beyond C 

17 D 

18 D; ambush prepared 



Setting Traps: If the evil party is inter 
rupted while setting a trap (including the 
turn of completion), the trap is not set. 

Detecting Traps. The traps have multiple 
tripwires. Each tripwire must be found and 
removed independently, though for tourna 
ment purposes each such attempt is success 
ful (the point here is to discover if the 
characters are intelligent enough to try to 
avoid multiple trapping). A find traps spell, 
properly used, gives away the game fairly 
quickly! 

Point A 

The party is moving through heavily 
wooded hills. At this point, Ara Iligen has 
used major creation from a scroll to create a 
combination of two "Malaysian mantraps" 
(scythe blades attached to bent saplings) 
and a spiked-wall-and-snare trap. Note that 
there are three trip wires beyond the man- 
traps themselves. The first rank of charac 
ters must make three dexterity checks (roll 
their dexterity or lesson ld20); if any of the 
checks are failed, the traps are triggered. 
The characters in the second rank are hit by 
the mantraps for 16 points of damage; those 
in the front rank are impaled on the spiked 
wall for 30 points of damage. No saving 
throws are allowed in either case. 

Point B 

The party has passed the crest of a hill and 
continued down a defile which climbs 
another hill ahead. Ara Iligen, behind them 
under improved invisibility when they pass, 
casts fog cloud. Describe it so that the party 
thinks it is a cloudkill. The rest of Ara Ilig- 
en's party have set an avalanche of rocks 
and logs at the top of the far hill, connected 
to another set of three trip wires in the 
defile. If the characters run down the path 
away from the fog cloud, they have no 
chance to avoid the trip wires and are struck 
by the landslide, each taking 24 points of 
damage (12 if save vs. death is made, modi 
fied by dexterity). If they ignore the cloud 
and look for traps ahead, they pass the trap 
with the usual delay. They trip the ava 
lanche if they do not look for traps. 

Point C 

The trap here is more devious than the pre 
vious two. Ara Iligen has used minor crea 
tion and major creation spells and Pyros has 
used a dig spell. It starts as a simple pit filled 
with spikes. When the victims step on the 
doors over the pit and fall in (taking 


16 




10 points of damage), larger spikes snap 
over from the sides to impale the character 
from above (doing 15 more points of dam 
age). Then three logs, their limbs roughly 
trimmed to 6-inch spikes, suddenly drop 
from the overhanging trees to swing over 
the pit, making rescue very dangerous. A 
rescue fails if the rescuing character takes 
damage from the logs. The rescuing charac 
ter must roll his dexterity or less on 4d6 for 
each log. Each log does 1-12 points if it hits. 
Trapped characters cannot escape the pit by 
themselves. The logs hang by ropes from 
branches above the pit. The ropes may be 
cut if a character climbs or levitates up to 
them, and there is no limit to the number of 
rescue attempts that can be made. 

Point D 

Part of the hillside has fallen away, forming 
a rock slide across the path. It is possible to 
climb over it, though difficult. The hill 
above the path is covered by large boulders 
and trees. Anyone standing atop the hill has 
a clear view of the path in both directions, 
but has good cover from anyone on the 
path. In other words, this is a perfect 
ambush spot! 


IF THE NPCs ARRIVE FIRST The evil 
party stops here to set up an ambush, figur 
ing the characters are close behind. While 
they are waiting, they open the bag they 
bought from Lord Krell. Examining their 
treasure, they find they've been tricked- 
one of the iron keys is missing. Krell still has 
it, though the evil party will think he sold it 
to the player characters. They wait in 
ambush for the party, figuring to kill them, 
get the key, and go back to their masters. 

IF THE PLAYER CHARACTERS ARRIVE 
FIRST (by taking the road to the junction 
point and working their way back): The 
party receives a description of the area, 
along with a strong hint that this would be 
an ideal place for an ambush. If they decide 
to do so, have them detail their plan of 
action. An ambush results in one free sur 
prise round and first round initiative for the 
ambushing group. 

The opposition appears on the path in the 
following order: Rendar, Ovak Nar, and 
Pyros; followed four rounds later by Ara 
Iligen and Blackleaf. The players must 
spring their ambush within two rounds. 
After the surprise round, Ovak Nar casts 


hold person on the nearest character for 
Rendar to kill. Pyros casts fireball if a group 
of characters is available, otherwise he uses 
a magic missile against a spell caster. Ara 
Iligen, under the cover of his invisibility , 
runs away, but Blackleaf casts haste, on him 
self and fire arrow on seven arrows to fire at 
the party at the rate of four per round. He 
continues firing arrows under the haste spell 
until attacked. If victory seems a dim possi 
bility at this point, he also beats a hasty 
retreat into the woods. 

If the party wins, they find a velvet bag, 
unopened, on the body of Ovak Nar. It is 
heavy, and feels like it contains keys of the 
correct length. If the party doesn't open it 
and look inside, the adventure is over. If 
they choose to see what they've won, they 
find that one of the iron keys is missing. Fur 
ther searching does not produce the missing 
key, of course, but they find a 5,000 gp 
necklace around Blackleaf s neck, if he is 
slain. 

They might figure out what has happened 
and go back to Krell Manor to get the other 
key. Krell is expecting one of the groups 
back in any case, and sells the remaining 
key for an additional 20,000 gp, or 10,000 
gp and two magical items. 






The Ambush Area 

The hill has a steep, forested slope, scarred 
by the slide that has partially buried the 
path. The top of the slope is strewn with 
boulders and trees; the area of the, slide is lit 
tered with large rocks and logs; the path 
itself is clogged with boulders and rubble; 
and the lower slope continues the slide area. 

Normal movement is one hex per 3 
inches-half this if moving off the path or 
through the slide area. The terrain affects 
missile fire and saving throws as follows 
(because of cover and concealment): 

TERRAIN EFFECTS 

In Forested Slope +2 AC - 
Stationary in Slide Area +2 AC +1 Save 
Stationary on Hilltop +7 AC +3 Save 

The Evil Party's Ambush Plan 

Rendar and Blackleaf are hiding in the boul 
ders above the path. Ovak Nar, Pyros, and 
Ara Iligen are hidden in the rocks and trees 
above. Pyros has cast shield and Ovak has 
blessed Rendar and Blackleaf. Blackleaf has 
hasted himself and Rendar. In the surprise 
round, Pyros casts his best fireball spell to 
encompass as many as possible, especially 
opponent spell casters. Ara Iligen casts a 
color spray. Ovak Nar casts a prayer. Black 
leaf uses his flame arrow, firing four arrows 
per round at enemy fighters, while Rendar 
will not fire, but engages in melee with any 
one trying to break through. Once these ini 
tial routines are completed, continue the 
action as befits the situation. The evil party 
gets initiative on the first normal round. 

It is possible that the entire party may 
perish here. At this point, decide if and how 
the adventure can be continued. At worst, 
the quest has failed, though new characters 
can be hired to get the keys. On the other 
hand, Krell may have the characters 
returned to Widdershin for resurrection (for 
a hefty profit!). The High Council might be 
able to secure the keys from the other inter 
ested party by other means. 

Point E 

If the party arrives here without first going 
to the manor, there is nothing here. If they 
have spoken with Lord Krell, you may tell 
them that the mark of a broken horse shoe 
can be seen in the dust enroute, if they ask. 
The party finds the evil party's half-ore 
lackey with six horses at the road junction, 
waiting for his masters. 


Lackey: AC 9; MV 24" (horse); FI; hp 7; 
#AT 1; THACO 20; Dmg 1-6 (short 
sword) 

Whether he is slain or allowed to escape is of 
little importance. The party might guess 
from the horses that the evil party is still on 
the mountain path. 

MAJOR NPCS 

Krell's Holding 

Lord Krell: AC 0; MV 12"; F10; hp 71; #AT 
3/2; THACO 9; Dmg 1-644 spear +3; S 
16, Int 13, W 15, Dex 16, Con 15, Ch 17 

He has bracers of defense AC 2 and a ring of 
telekinesis on his person; chainmail +7, a 
potion of heroism, and potion of invulnera 
bility in his room; and a spear +3, four quar 
rels +2, javelin +2, shield +2, and bastard 
sword +7 on the wall in the Great Hall. 

Laisir: AC -1; MV 12"; F7; hp 60; #AT 3/2; 
THACO 10; Dmg 1-84-6; S 18/76, Int 11, 
W 9, Con 17, Dex 16, Ch 12; plate mail 
+1, shield+1, long sword+2 

Hendrik: AC 1 (plate mail and shield); MV 
6"; C4; hp 31; #AT 1; THACO 17; Dmg 
1-6+3; S 16, In 11, W 17, Dex 16, Con 15, 
Ch 14; mace +1, scroll: protection from 
magic, wand of negation 

Spells: 

First level: bless, cure light wounds (x2), 
light, purify food and drink 
Second level: hold person (x2), silence - 
15'radius, slow poison 

Marbuul: AC 9; MV 12"; M6; hp 17; #AT 
1; THACO 19; Dmg 14-; S 8, Int 16, W 
11, Dmg 12, Con 13, Ch 11; ring ofpro- 
tection +1, wand of illusion, scroll: invis 
ible stalker, potion of polymorph self, 
potion of extra-healing 

Spells: 

First level: charm person, enlarge, hold 
portal, magic missile 
Second level: detect invisible, knock 
Third level: dispel magic, slow 

The Evil Party 

Ara Iligen: AC 5; MV 12"; 110; hp 28; #AT 
1; THACO 19; Dmg 1-6 (quarter staff); S 
9, Int 17, W 13, Dex 17, Con 14, Ch 16; 
ring of protection +2, scroll: major crea 
tion, maze . 



Spells: 

First level: color spray (x3), wall of fog, 
change self 

Second level: hypnotic pattern, mirror 
image, blindness, detect magic 
Third level: invisibility - 1' radius, hal 
lucinatory terrain, fear 
Fourth level: minor creation, improved 
invisibility 

Fifth level: major creation 

Blackleaf (elf): AC 4 (leather); MV 12"; F6/ 
M7; hp 35; #AT 3/2; THACO 12 bow, 
14 sword; Dmg 1-6 (arrow) or 1-8+1 
(longsword); S 17, Int 16, W 14, Dex 18, 
Con 16, Ch 15) 

Spells: 

First level: shield, read magic, magic mis 
sile, charm person 

Second level: invisibility, magic mouth, 
esp 

Third level: flame arrow, haste 
Fourth level: wizard eye 

OvakNar: AC4;MV9 M ;C9;hp45;#ATl; 
THACO 16; Dmg d6+2 (footman's 
mace); S 16, Int 14, W 18, Dex 13, Con 
14, Ch 18 

Spells: 

First level: sanctuary, cure light wounds 
(x4), bless, detect evil 
Second level: know alignment, speak 
with animals, chant, hold person, 
find traps 

Third level: create food and water, dispel 
magic, prayer, speak with dead 
Fourth level: neutralize poison, cause 
serious wounds, detect lie 
Fifth level: raise dead 

Pyros: AC 10; MV 12"; M6; hp 28; #AT 1; 
THACO 19; Dmg 14 (dagger); S 10, Int 
18, W 12, Dex 13, Con 15, Ch 13; scrolls: 
dimension door, fireball (7d6), dig, 
delayed blast fireball 

Spells: 

First level: sleep, magic missile, burning 
hands, shield 

Second level: web, wizard lock 
Third level: fireball, dispel magic 

Rendar: AC 4; MV 12"; half-ore F9; hp 64; 
#AT 3/2; THACO 8, bow 12; Dmg 1- 
10+5; S 18/51, Int 10, W9, Dex 15, Con 
17, Ch 9; chain mail +1, two-handed 
sword +2, long comp, bow 


18 


Scenario 3: The Perils of Symbolism 


PLAYERS' BACKGROUND 


You have, by discovering the Wheel of 
Time in Loring's Wood, proved that this 
is the time of the Prophecy of Brie. You 
also recovered nine antiquated keys pos 
sessed by Krell, the Robber Baron, find 
ing out in the process that Krell's 
appellation was well-earned. 

King Llywelyn went to his grave with 
out his trappings of royal power: his 
crowned helm, scepter, and baldric. The 
funeral procession from Widdershin to 
Dolmen Moor above Sky Lake had an 
accident while traversing the rapids in 
the Damrosil River where the stream 
from Loring's Wood joins it. The chest 
carrying the items was lost to the river, 
and the ensuing search proved fruitless. 

About 50 years ago the scepter turned 
up in Widdershin, sold by a bugbear 
chieftain for cash with which to buy food 
for its tribe. No one knew what the scep 
ter was until a scholar of the Brothers of 
Brie, researching what few documents 
remained concerning the reign of Llywe 
lyn, recognized it from its description. 
Exhaustive research has now pinpointed 
the bugbears' lair. You are to journey to 
the caves called the Eyes of Berta to 
recover the helm and baldric if they are 
still there. 

The bugbears are known to be cunning 
and treacherous. They prey on the river 
traffic, shutting down trade south of 
Bergal. However, the remoteness of the 
area has prevented a large scale punitive 
expedition. Surprising the bugbears is of 
upmost importance, for it would be 
impossible to slay them all, especially if 
they knew of your presence. A swift, get- 
in-and-get-out raid is required. 


The characters must enter the bugbear cave 
complex without being seen. The success of 
the adventure hinges on whether or not the 
bugbears are alerted to the party's presence, 
and descriptions of certain areas within the 
complex vary if an alert exists. Party actions 
that trigger the alarm are clearly noted in 
the DM sections of the encounters. 

If the party alerts the bugbears, then 
retreats to the woods for a day until the 
furor dies down, the bugbears return to 
their non-alert status. 

Attempts by the characters may to bluff 
their way in, representing themselves as 
traders, etc., do not work. The bugbears 
play along with them until enough bugbears 


are gathered to outnumber the party, then 
they throw them in the cells in the lair (room 
11 ), hoping for ransom. 

DUNGEON MASTER'S NOTES 

The following random encounter tables are 
used in campaign play only. Make morning 
and evening encounter checks. 

DAMROSIL TRAIL 
RANDOM ENCOUNTERS 

An encounter occurs on a roll of 1 on ldlO. 
Die 

Roll Encounter 


1 1-3 black bears 

2 1-12 wild boars 

3 2-20 ogres 

4 2-5 owlbears 

5 1 giant skunk 

DAMROSIL TRAIL 
ENCOUNTERS 

The adventure begins on a trail on the east 
bank of the Damrosil River. 

1. THE HERBALIST 


You are traveling on foot along the east 
bank of the Damrosil River, north of Wid 
dershin. Your present position is a point 
roughly two miles south of the Eyes. The 
weather is very threatening, with low, 
scudding black clouds and the rumble of 
distant thunder to the south and west. 
Rounding a bend in the river, you hear a 
woman scream. She is crouched by the 
river bank, waving at you weakly, then her 
movements cease. Her clothes are simple 
homespun, covered with dirt and leaves. 


This encounter is run differently, depending 
on whether it is used in tournament or cam 
paign play. Read the Tournament Notes. If 
the player characters investigate, proceed 
with this encounter; if not, go to trail 
encounter 2. 


The ground here is soft and lush with 
vegetation. The woman is unconscious, 
but still alive. Her body shows marks of 
the bites of some large animal. Her 
mouth and hands are encrusted with 
dirt, and her left hand holds the top por 
tion of a small plant with arrowhead 


shaped leaves. She carries a large bag 
filled with assorted roots and plants, 
some the same as the one she is holding. 


If the party pries open the woman's mouth, 
they find the well-chewed remains of some 
type of plant root. The woman is an herbal 
ist who live in the woods nearby, and was 
attacked by a poisonous hydra a short dis 
tance from here. The poison is slow-acting, 
however, and the root she has chewed is an 
effective antidote. Many of these same 
plants can be seen growing here. The 
woman can be revived by giving her liquids 
or any curing spell. The root she has 
chewed, as well as the ones she is carrying, 
are unfamiliar to all members of the party. If 
the party discovers the chewed root, it 
should not be absolutely clear whether the 
root is a medicine or a poison. 

The woman has become hysterical as a 
result of her ordeal. If the party revives her, 
she immediately flees into the woods. She 
does not answer any questions. If the party 
pursues her, she pulls a dagger from her dress 
and threatens to kill herself. If the party con 
tinues pursuit, she kills herself unless the 
party prevents it. If she is taken prisoner, she 
becomes more and more hysterical, finally 
becoming incoherent with fear. 

Herbalist: AC 10; MV 12"; Lvl 0; hp 2; #AT 
1; THACO 20; Dmg 1-4 

Tournament Notes: In tournament play, 
the woman does not regain consciousness. If 
characters examine her, tell them that she is 
obviously dying and that her wounds are so 
severe that she cannot be saved. She has 
been fatally mauled by some animal or 
monster; the bite and claw wounds are 
clearly visible. She is carrying the pouch of 
herbs, and has chewed the antidote root, as 
described above. She dies five minutes after 
the party finds her. 

2. WILD BOARS 


The journey continues up the east bank 
of the Damrosil. You have not gone far 
when you clearly hear some low-pitched 
grunting and high-pitched squeals some 
where close ahead. 


The sounds are from the feeding activity of 
four wild boars (one male, one sow, and 
two young). The encounter distance is 60 
feet and the party has surprised the boars. 
The party has two segments of surprise. The 
boars are cautious, but do not attack. The 


19 










boars defend themselves, as this is their home 
ground and there are young to be protected as 
well. If the party uses a speak with animals 
spell or skill, the boars are friendly and tell the 
party that there is a large group of bugbears 
living to the north. (These are the bugbears 
living in the Eyes of Berta.) The boars do not 
know how many bugbears there are, nor are 
they aware of the hydra's presence. 

Wild Boar: AC 7; MV 15"; HD 3+3; hp 20; 
#AT 1; THACO 16; Dmg 3-12 (ldlO+2) 

Sow: AC 7; MV 15 "; HD 3+3; hp 16; #AT 1; 
THACO 16; Dmg 2-8 

Young Boars: AC 7; MV 15"; HD 2; hp 8, 
11; #AT 1; THACO 16; Dmg 1-6 

3. THE HYDRA S LAIR 


You have traveled half a mile north from 
the encounter with the wild boars, and 
the trail parallels the river. Proceeding 
further, it is apparent from the flattened 
vegetation that some large, heavy body 
has passed here recently. A noxious odor 
hangs heavy in the still air. 

A poisonous 5-headed hydra lurks nearby. 

Hydra: AC 5; MV 9"; HD 5; hp 40; #AT 5; 
THACO 15; Dmg 1-6; SA poison 

The woman in trail encounter 1 barely 
escaped after being attacked by this monster. 

The hydra suddenly slithers from its hid 
ing place 20 feet from the party and attacks. 

Anyone bitten by the hydra must save vs. 
poison or become unconscious for one day. 
It is possible that a character could be bitten 
more than once in a single round; the char 
acter must make a saving throw for each 
bite. Healing spells cure physical damage 
from the bite, but have no effect on the poi 
son. A slow poison delays the effects, while 
a neutralize poison negates the adverse 
effects immediately. There are no perma 
nent ill effects from being poisoned. 

The root of the plant the herbalist chewed 
also neutralizes the poison. If the victim is 
unable to chew, the sap may be squeezed 
out and dropped in his or her mouth. This 
root is useless if given more than two game 
turns after the bite. 

Tournament Notes: If several characters 
attack simultaneously, the hydra uses one 
head to attack each character. If fewer than 
five characters attack, roll randomly to see 
which characters suffer multiple attacks. 



4. THE APPROACH TO THE CAVES 


The overgrown trail leads closer to the 
river. High on the opposite bank is a 
cave-the Eyes of Berta! A trail descends 
from the cave to a landing with several 
boats. Pulled up on the shore on your side 
of the stream, carelessly screened with 
brush, is another boat that looks large 
enough to hold three people. The trail 
along the your bank continues upstream. 


The cave the party sees is Cave A. The party 
can cross here safely without alerting the 
bugbears. If the party crosses here, go to 
trail encounter 5. If they continue up the 
trail, go to trail encounter 6. 

5. THE LOWER CROSSING 


The river is easily crossed. This side of the 
river is marshy, and the smell of rotting 
vegetation is strong. The air seems electri 
fied, and the storm that has been brewing 
seems ready to unleash its fury at any 
time. Traces of a trail can be seen plunging 
into the dense growth. Before you get to 
the cave you saw earlier, an even fainter 
sign of a little used track can be seen head 
ing west, apparently around the hill. 


If the party takes this new trail, go to the 
description of cave entrance E; if not, go to 
cave entrance A, encounter Al. If the party 
has arrived here from trail encounter 6, go 
to cave entrance A, encounter A2. 

6. THE UPPER CROSSING 


The trail beyond the small boat leads 
you further north. After three quarters 
of a mile you find yourself directly oppo 
site the Eyes of Berta. Three more caves 
are visible in addition to the one you 
sighted earlier, set high in a bluff over 
looking the Damrosil. The river is wider 
and slower here, and there are two small 
coves in the west bank directly under the 
Eyes. Three crude docks project into the 
river from the shore below the second 
cave. North of the caves, the cover on 
both sides of the river thins rapidly. 

From south to north, Cave A shows 
no activity; the mouth of Cave B shows 
some signs of fortification, though the 
crude construction is in disrepair. No 
guards can be seen, though some smoke 



drifts out from this cave. Caves C and D 
show the most activity, in that armed 
bugbears can be seen walking out of D, 
then into C. Watching for several min 
utes, you estimate that that there are at 
least 70 of the creatures. 

Cave A is set lower in the hillside than 
the others, and an occasional bugbear 
with a full sack over its shoulder enters 
it, then leaves a short time later, the sack 
empty. Caves A and B are not visible 
from the other caves due to intervening 
rocks and a heavy growth of brush. The 
caves are protected against a river-borne 
attack; two large chains are visible just 
under the water at the narrowest parts of 
the river. The chains can be raised to 
block traffic up or down the river. 

While taking all this in, you realize 
that below you, on your side the river 
bank, is a lone bugbear, busy with the 
mooring ropes of two 5-man boats that 
have been pulled on shore. He appar 
ently does not know you are here. 


If the party attacks, they surprise the bug 
bear and have four surprise segments in 
which to attack. If they act swiftly and with 
out a lot of noise, the bugbear can be dis 
posed of easily without alerting anyone on 
the other side. If captured, the bugbear 
cooperates only enough to stay alive. He 
does not yell an alert, but attempts to escape 
as soon as an opportunity presents itself. 
The party does not learn anything of impor 
tance from the bugbear. 

The party is not able to see the entrance to 
Cave E from this vantage point. Cave E can 
be reached only by taking the trail from trail 
encounter 5. 

If the party tries to cross here the bug 
bears see them. The bugbears give no sign 
that they are alerted, but one bugbear qui 
etly enters Cave B and reports to the chief 
tain. The party does not notice 
this-proceed to the appropriate cave 
entrance description. Remember, the bug 
bears are alerted if the party crosses here, so 
refer to the alerted descriptions in the BUG 
BEAR LAIR. 

A party that asks if they can make a con 
cealed crossing at this point should be told 
that it is not likely. However, the reeds here 
are dense enough so the party may float the 
boats downstream away from the bugbears 
and make the crossing without being 
observed. If the party decides to cross further 
downstream, go back to trail encounter 5. 


20 







THE CAVE ENTRANCES 

CAVE A 

If the party has bypassed trail encounter 6, 
use cave encounter Al. Otherwise, use 
encounter A2. Encounter Al is not shown 
on the map of the caves. Encounter A2 is 
shown. 

AL TAKING OUT THE GARBAGE 


Struggling up the steep hill, you reach 
the mouth of the cave. Suddenly, you are 
startled to see a bugbear emerge from the 
brush, carrying a large sack slung over 
his shoulder. 


The bugbear is surprised, and the party has 
one segment of free action. 

Bugbear: AC 5; MV 9"; HD 3+1; hp 15; 
#AT 1; THACO 16; Dmg 2-8 

The bugbear flees if possible, dropping the 
sack. If the party allows him to escape, or if 
the party makes an excessive amount of 
noise in the process of stopping him, the 
alarm is raised. Go to encounter A2. The 
party learns nothing of value here, and the 
bugbear tries to escape at the first opportu 
nity, if captured. A faint trail back to cave B 
is discovered if the party looks for one. The 
sack contains garbage that the bugbear was 
going to feed to the neo-otyugh in A2. 

A2. LAIR OF THE NEO-OTYUGH 


After a short walk, you reach the cave 
entrance. There is a scattering of trash 
and bones on both sides of the opening. 
The smell of decayed meat and rotten 
vegetation is particularly strong. The 
footprints of many bugbears are visible 
in the dirt. 


The party may enter safely. If the characters 
choose to go on, continue below. 


The passageway twists its way into the hill. 
The smell of garbage grows more pungent. 
Soon after, you discover the reason why- 
the tunnel serves as a garbage dump. A 
large pile of rotten garbage is situated on 
the left side of a 20-foot-wide area of the 
passage. The tunnel continues on past the 
mbbish heap, vanishing into the darkness 
beyond. 


The garbage is the home of a neo-otyugh. 

Neo-otyugh: AC 0; MV 6 M ; HD 10; hp 45; 

#AT 3; THACO 10; Dmg 2-12/2-12/1-3; 

SA disease 

The bugbears carry sacks of garbage here to 
feed the creature. The creature originally 
guarded an entrance into the caves, but the 
tunnel caved in long ago. The bugbears 
keep the neo-otyugh around because it eats 
their trash. 

Players asking about tracks should be 
told that the footprints stop about halfway 
past the garbage pile. The neo-otyugh is 
very quiet, waiting for the party to get close 
or pass by. If the party comes within 20 feet, 
then turns to leave, the monster attacks. If 
the party decides to continue on, the neo- 
otyugh remains hidden and still. Once the 
party has left the area, heading deeper into 
the hill, the creature moves to block the pas 
sage. The party soon discovers that the tun 
nel is blocked, and the only way out is 
through the monster. Fighting the neo- 
otyugh alerts the bugbears. 

CAVE B 


The heavy growth of trees and scrub acts 
as a very effective screen, allowing you 
to gain the entrance of the second cave 
without being seen. This entrance was 
once heavily fortified, though construc 
tions here have now fallen in ruin. The 
wispy smoke emanating from the cave 
mouth carries the distinct odor of roast 
ing meat. No one is in sight. 


This is the safest way to enter the complex, 
though it will be for naught if the alarm has 
been raised through other party actions. Go 
to encounter 3 in the KEY TO THE BUG 
BEAR LAIR. 

CAVES C AND D 

The area in which this encounter takes place 
is not shown on the map of the caves. 


As you approach the caves, you hear 
bugbears. They are apparently unaware 
of your presence, their speech being rude 
jests and disparaging remarks concern 
ing someone named Gorsh. 


There are eight bugbears in this area. 

Bugbears: AC 5; MV 9 M ; HD 3fl; hp 10, 12, 
13, 15, 15, 18, 20, 21; #AT 1; THACO 
16; Dmg 2-8 

Because of the layout of the trail, the party 
can burst upon the scene in close quarters 
with the creatures. If the bugbears have not 
been alerted, the party has one segment of 
surprise, plus automatic initiative on the 
following round. 

If the bugbears are alerted, no surprise is 
possible. These bugbears are under discipli 
nary action, and walk constant guard duty 
in a circle between the two caves. Gorsh, 
one of the chieftain's lieutenants, is respon 
sible for this. Fighting these guards raises 
the alarm. 

CAVEE 

Encounter El occurs before the party enters 
the area shown on the map of the caves. 
Encounters E2, E3, and E4 are shown on the 
map. 

EL THE SECRET DOOR 


Most traces of the trail have disap 
peared, suggesting that this route is sel 
dom, if ever, traveled. You have come to 
a rock wall against which rest several 
large boulders. From the dense growth in 
the rock crevices, you surmise that no 
one has been here in years. 


There is a secret door to the bugbear lair 
behind the largest boulder, which can be 
moved aside by a combined strength of 36. 
However, it is also trapped with a rockslide 
that does 40 points of damage to each char 
acter attempting to move the stone (20 
points if the character makes a save vs. 
death. 

Triggering this rock slide alerts the bug 
bears, and seals up the cave for good. If the 
trap is triggered, the party must go back to 
the river. Cave 2 is the only other entrance. 
If the trap is removed, the rock can be 
moved safely and the party may proceed if 
they wish. The party must pass through the 
secret door before they can enter the tunnel 
shown on the map. 

Tournament Notes: An elf or half-elf finds 
the secret door if a search is made. The 
dwarf or monk automatically find the trap 
if they search. If the trap is found, it can be 
disarmed automatically. 








E2. THE ARMOR TRAP 


Moving the boulder reveals a murky tun 
nel leading into the hill. The air is very 
stale and dank, making breathing diffi 
cult and causing torches to sputter fit 
fully, yielding only half the normal 
illumination (20' radius). A thick layer 
of dirt and fungus covers the floor. 
Patches of mold are visible on the walls. 
The tunnel appears to be natural rather 
than man-made, as it twists and turns 
seemingly at random. 


At the point shown on the map, a net near 
the ceiling of the passage holds pieces of 
rusted, useless armor. The trap is triggered 
by a tripwire three inches above the floor. 
The trap can be detected by the thief or the 
monk, or by a find traps spell. A character 
who triggers the trap suffers 10 points of 
damage from the falling armor (5 if a save 
vs. poison is made). Triggering this trap 
alerts the bugbears. 

Tournament Notes: The dwarf or monk 
automatically locates the trap if they are 
actively searching the passage for traps. A 
find traps spell automatically locates the 
trap. Once found, the tripwire can be easily 
bypassed. 

E3. THE COVERED PIT 

At the point shown on the map is a pit 30 
feet deep, covered by a thin stone slab. A 
weight of 100 pounds or more breaks 
through the slab, dumping the victim into 
the pit. The breakthrough is 5 feet from the 
closest wall. Anyone falling in takes 3-18 
points of damage. The monk would be too 
far from the wall to break her fall, if she is 
caught. If the trap is discovered, it can be 
bypassed easily. Triggering this trap alerts 
the bugbears. 

Tournament Notes: The dwarf or monk 
automatically find the covered pit if they 
are actively searching the area for traps 
before anyone steps on the slab. Find traps 
or detect snares and pits locates the trap in 
time for the party to avoid it. 

E4. THE BRIDGE OF BELLS 


The tunnel widens somewhat, and extra 
moisture is evident from the condensa 


tion on the walls and puddles on the 
floor. The steady drip-drip of water can 
easily be heard, coming from somewhere 
ahead. Flickering torchlight is reflected 
by a small pool of water that spreads all 
the way across the passage. Spanning 
this obstruction is a decrepit-looking sus 
pension bridge. Crude bells have been 
attached at 2-foot intervals along both 
sides of the bridge. 


The bridge is 34 feet long (tell the party it's 
"roughly 30 feet long," if they ask), and 
while rickety in appearance, it can hold up 
to 700 pounds without collapsing. When the 
bugbears used this tunnel, the bells were a 
signal to the guards at the end of the corri 
dor to open the portcullis into the cave com 
plex proper. Now they serve as an effective 
warning device. Ringing any of the bells 
alerts the bugbears. 

Have the party detail its method of get 
ting past this alarm and allow it to work if it 
is plausible. 

One possible solution to this dilemma is 
to cast silence, 15' radius, on an arrow and 
shoot it onto the bridge 15 feet from the far 
end. This silences all the bells except for the 
4 feet closest to the party. This means that 
four bells (two on each side) must be very 
carefully and quietly removed before any 
one steps onto the bridge. 

If the bridge is overloaded, it dumps the 
characters into the lake. The water is only 
three feet deep, but prevents the characters 
from taking any damage from the fall. The 
party members are able to climb out with 
difficulty. The bugbears are alerted if the 
bridge collapses. 

E5. THE PORTCULLIS 


Having crossed the bridge, you continue 
down the tunnel. Some evidence of 
worked stone can be seen, and a dim 
light is visible ahead. Proceeding further, 
a portcullis blocks further progress. The 
light is stronger now, and the aroma of 
roasting meat overpowers the damp, 
musty smell of the tunnel behind you. 
Hanging on each side of the portcullis is a 
rope, which passes out of sight through 
the wall. 


The ropes have nothing to do with raising 
the portcullis, though they are connected to 


small gongs in the main hall (room 15). 
Raising the portcullis is noisy business 
unless silence, 15' radius is used. A com 
bined strength of 24 points or more is 
required to raise the gate. Pulling on either 
rope sounds the gongs in room 15. Pulling 
on either rope or lifting the portcullis with 
out silencing it alerts the bugbears. 

BUGBEAR LAIR 

Weather: Shortly after the party enters the 
bugbear lair, the storm breaks. It is raining 
when the party emerges from the caves. 

Tunnel Encounters: All the tunnels in the 
lair are smoky and very dark. If the bug 
bears have not been alerted, there are no 
tunnel encounters. If the bugbears have 
been alerted, the party has encounters at 
Points A and B only. 

Area Descriptions: The encounter key con 
tains no boxed players' description because 
the encounters are variable. Some encount 
ers are different or do not occur at all if the 
bugbear lair is unalerted when the party 
attacks. Describe each area appropriately, 
depending on the results of the party's 
actions. 

Point A 

If the bugbears are alerted, four bugbears 
from room 2 and the cave bear from room 1 
are waiting here to stop the party. The bug 
bear witch doctor has trapped a 10' x 10' 
area at Point A with a glyph of warding cast 
from a scroll. If the glyph is triggered, it 
causes 24 points of electrical damage, or 12 
if the victim saves vs. spell. (The witch doc 
tor left after casting the glyph, and is 
encountered elsewhere.) If the bugbears are 
not alerted, this four-way is vacant, and 
there is no glyph here. 

Bugbears (from room 2): AC 5; MV 9HD 
3fl; hp 18, 19, 20, 22; #AT 1; THACO 
16; Dmg 1-6 with spear or 2-8 with 
morning star 

Cave bear (from room 1): AC 6; MV 12"; 
HD 6+6; hp 40; #AT 3; THACO 13; Dmg 
1-8/1-8/1-12; SA hug for 2-16, fights 1-4 
rounds at 0 to -8 hp 

Point B 

If the bugbears are alerted, the eight bug 
bears from room 8 are here. Otherwise, this 
area is empty. 







Bugbears (from room 8): AC 5; MV 9"; HD 
3+1; hp 12, 14, 15, 16, 16, 18, 19, 20; #AT 
1; THACO 16; Dmg 1-6 with spear or 2- 
8 with morning star 

1. ABANDONED BARRACKS ROOM 

Years ago these caves were filled with bug 
bears, but with the decline in trade from the 
upper river region, caused by the piracy of 
these same bugbears, the colony has dwin 
dled to a fraction of its former strength. This 
large cavern now contains mainly junk, 
such as broken equipment, empty crates, 
rags, etc. 

If the bugbears have not been alerted, the 
cage in the southwest comer of the cavern 
contains a cave bear. 

Cave bear: AC 6; MV 12"; HD 6+6; hp 40; 
#AT 3; Dmg 1-8/1-8/1-12; SA hug for 2- 
16, fights 14 rounds at 0 to -8 hp 

It starts to growl at the party's scent. This 
brings four bugbears from room 2 to inves 
tigate, but does not alert the complex unless 
the party initiates a fight. 

If the bugbears are alerted, they take their 
cave bear to Point A to lie in wait for the 
party. 

Bugbears (from room 2): AC 5; MV 9"; HD 
3+1; hp 18, 19, 20, 22; #AT 1; THACO 
16; Dmg 1-6 with spear or 2-8 with 
morning star 

2. BARRACKS ROOM 

Here reside 16 bugbears. 

Bugbears (16): AC 5; MV 9"; HD 3+1; hp 
10, 11, 12, 12, 14, 14, 15, 15, 15, 16, 16, 
16, 18, 19, 20, 22; #AT 1; THACO 16; 
Dmg 1-6 with spear or 2-8 with morning 
star 

If unalerted, they are asleep on their filthy 
beds of rags and straw. The secret door in 
this area is one way only. 

If the alert has been given, the first 12 
bugbears are lying in wait in area 3 to spring 
the ambush there. The last four are at Point 
A with the cave bear. 

3. WIDE TUNNEL 

This area is used to store looted crates and 
drying fishing nets. The nets are hanging 
from the ceiling over the entire 50 feet length 
of this area, while crates are stacked floor- 
to-ceiling with a passage 10 feet wide 
between them. 

There is a passage 5 feet wide behind the 
stack on each side for bugbears to hide 



behind. If there is no alert, this area is unde 
fended and the party may pass without 
trouble. 

If the bugbears have been alerted, this 
area is rigged for ambush. The 12 bugbears 
from room 2 are in position to drop the nets 
on anyone in the tunnel between the stacks 
of crates, immobilizing them. Characters 
under the net must save vs. breath weapon, 
with a -2 on the roll, to avoid being caught. 
The characters do not receive any bonuses 
to the saving throw. (The save indicates the 
severity of the trap, rather than a magical 
effect.) The bugbears take prisoners for ran 
som, rather than simply kill them outright. 
Dropping the nets takes one round, and the 
bugbears are on the party in the next round. 

Netted characters are able to attack, at -4 
"to hit." The only spells a netted character 
can cast are those that do not require 
somatic gestures (spells with only "V" and 
"M" components). Netted characters can 
cut themselves free in one round if they have 
edged weapons. Drawing a weapon takes 
one round for a netted character. Characters 
who are free can cut a netted character loose 
in one round. Netted characters receive no 
dexterity or shield bonuses to their armor 
class. The bugbears receive a +4 bonus "to 
hit" against fighting characters; they auto 
matically hit characters who are trying to 
free themselves. 

Bugbears (from room 2): AC 5; MV 9"; HD 
3+1; Ip 10, 11, 12, 12, 14, 14, 15, 15, 15, 
16, 16, 16; #AT 1; THACO 16; Dmg 1-6 
with spear or 2-8 with morning star 

4. STORAGE 

This area contains mundane articles plun 
dered from merchants coming downriver. 
Nothing of interest is here. 

5. STORAGE 

Same as room 4. 

6. CHAPEL 

Formal worship of the bugbear god, Hrug- 
gek, is performed here, as well as the sacri 
fice of enemies or captives if no ransom is 
forthcoming. The walls are lined with the 
heads of past victims, and the east end of the 
cave is dominated by a stained, crudely- 
hewn altar. There is no one here, regardless 
of alert status. 

7. STORAGE 

Same as room 4. 



8. MESS HALL 

There are eight bugbears here eating an 
unappetizing fish soup. 

Bugbears (8): AC 5; MV 9"; HD 3+1; hp 12, 
14, 15, 16, 16, 18, 19, 20; #AT 1; 
THACO 16; Dmg 1-6 with spear or 2-8 
with morning star 

If no alert exists, the party has two segments 
of surprise. If the party decides to leave, the 
bugbears pursue them. 

If alerted, these bugbears are at Point B. 

9. KITCHEN 

This is the kitchen, and quarters for the only 
three females in the caves. They are old and 
feeble, and can be easily subdued or killed. 
This cave is filthy, and the work areas and 
utensils have probably not been cleaned in 
years. A large, very smoky fire is burning in 
a crude fireplace. There is apparently no 
chimney, for the smoke is drifting out of the 
doors and down the tunnels. 

10. TREASURY CAVE 

This is supposed to be a communal treasure, 
though Kroker, the bugbear chieftain, 
claims all for himself. There is a total of 
3,500 gp worth of coins, bolts of cloth, mar 
ble sculptures, gems and jewelry, in addition 
to three fine swords (non-magical), a suit of 
banded armor + 1, and dihelm of underwater 
action. The armor, helm, and one of the 
swords are hanging on the wall, and can be 
clearly seen if the door to the treasury is 
open. 

If the bugbears have not been alerted, the 
door is open. When the party arrives, Kro 
ker leaves by the opposite door carrying a 
small coffer, followed by a more normal 
sized bugbear who remains in the doorway, 
standing guard. If the party can get past the 
guard, they may take whatever they 
choose, the idea being to make them think 
that the armor and helm are the items they 
seek (they are not, of course). 

If the bugbears are alerted, the door is 
locked. Two bugbears and a hyenadon from 
room 15 are standing guard. 

Kroker (bugbear chieftain): AC 2; MV 9"; 
HD 4; hp 30; #AT 1 at +3; THACO 12; 
Dmg 8-15 (ld8+7) 

He wears a girdle of hill giant strength and 
King Llywelyn's Baldric, a baldric of AC 2. 
Kroker is armed with a longsword. 


23 



Kroker's Guard (from room 15): AC 5; MV 
9"; HD 3+-1; hp 19; #AT 1; THACO 16; 
Dmg 2-8 with spiked club or 1-6 with 
spear 

Bugbear Guards (from room 15): AC 5; 
MV 9"; HD 3+-1; hp 15, 16; #AT 1; 
THACO 16; Dmg 1-6 with spear or 2-8 
with spiked club 

Hyenadon (from room 15): AC 7; MV 12 "; 
HD 5; hp 24; #AT 1; THACO 15; Dmg 3- 
12 (ldlO+2) 

11. FORGE 

Bugbear smiths repair equipment here, in 
addition to fashioning fish hooks, har 
poons, pots, etc. There are three forges in 
the east alcove, the rest of the area contain 
ing raw metal, misshapen metal fabrications 
to be remelted, and coal to stoke the fires. In 
the southwest comer are four cages, used as 
cells for captives. Hanging from the walls 
nearby are instruments of torture. The cells 
are empty, the forge fires banked. No one is 
here. 

12. ARMORY 

New and repaired armor and weapons are 
stored here. There are 12 broadswords, 
three short swords, 11 spears, five maces, 
six war hammers, and 15 spiked clubs. 
Armor is scarce, only two large suits of 
studded leather are here. 

13. SMITHY 

The bugbear armorer works here, manufac 
turing and repairing the war gear of the 
tribe. 

Armorer: AC 5; MV 9"; HD 3+1, hp 14; 
#AT 1; THACO 16; Dmg 2-8 

He is puttering around at his workbench, 
fastening new metal plates to a well-worn 
suit of studded leather armor. He hasn't 
been very busy since the population decline, 
and, being left here in his own little cave, 
has made a little world of his own. Having 
lost touch with reality, and being hard-of- 
hearing from a lifetime of hammering on 
metal, he can give the party no useful infor 
mation. If questioned, he babbles about 
gigantic river raids, the vast amounts of 
plunder stored in these caves, and how Kro- 
ker and 500 fearless warriors will descend 
the Damrosil next week to sack Widdershin. 
He must get busy and finish all the armor 
and weapons. 



14. KROKER'S QUARTERS 

The private quarters of the chieftain Kroker. 
The furniture is sturdy and practical, and 
includes a real bed and two chests. The 
chests contain clothing and spare bits of mil 
itary equipment. The real prize is under the 
mattress. Hidden there is correspondence 
between Gwydion, the seneschal of 
Pellham, and Kroker, arranging terms for a 
cut of the bugbears' plunder in exchange for 
the seneschal's influence preventing any mil 
itary expeditions against the bugbears! The 
room also contains a small locked coffer 
containing 500 gp. 

15. GREAT HALL 

Dirty straw covers the floor of the bugbears' 
great hall. A long bench draped with ratty 
furs sits against the north wall. Seated on 
the bench are Kroker, the chieftain; Gorsh, 
the sub-chief; and Trollbreath, Gorsh's 
brother. Lounging on the floor, gnawing on 
bones, are five hyenadons, watched over by 
four more bugbear guards. 

Kroker (bugbear chieftain): AC 1; MV 9"; 
HD 4; hp 30; #AT 1, at +3; THACO 12; 
Dmg 8-15 (ld8+7) 

He wears a girdle of hill giant strength 
and King Llywelyn's Baldric, a baldric of 
AC 2. He is armed with a longsword. 

Gorsh (sub-chief): AC 4; MV 9"; HD 4; hp 
23; #AT 1 at +1; THACO 15; Dmg 3-9 
(2d4+l) 

Trollbreath: AC 5; MV 9"; HD 3+1; hp 19; 
#AT 1; THACO 16; Dmg 1-8 with bee de 
corbin 

Guards (4): AC 5; MV 9"; HD 3+1; hp 14, 
15, 16, 19; #AT 1; THACO 16; Dmg 2-8 
with spiked club or 1-6 with spear 

Hyenadons (5): AC 7, MV 12"; HD 5; hp 
18, 19, 21, 22, 24; THACO 15; Dmg 3-12 
(ldlO+2) 

If the bugbears are not alerted, the party has 
four surprise segments. If they have stirred 
up some of the inhabitants while working 
their way through the caves, they have one 
segment of surprise. 

If the bugbears are alerted, the bugbear 
forces have one segment of surprise. The 
hyenadons attack first, as the bugbears 
throw their spears or close, depending on 
the situation. In either case, two rounds 
after the party enters the room, Billigal, the 
tribal shaman/witch doctor, enters from the 
hide-draped opening in the northwest cor 



ner. His appearance is frightening; he is cov 
ered with feathers and beads and he wears a 
wooden mask carved to represent a contorted 
bugbear leer. The staff he carries has a jewel 
on top (this jewel is similar to a stone of con 
trolling earth elemental, as described later). 

Billigal (shaman): AC 5; MV 9"; C/M 3/1; 
hp 23; #AT 1, as HD 4 monster; THACO 
15; Dmg 1-6 

Spells: 

First Level: cause light wounds, detect 
magic, shield 
Second Level: chant 

He has cast shield on himself prior to enter 
ing, and casts a chant spell to help the war 
riors. If the chant spell is broken, he curses 
in bugbear, and strikes the cave floor with 
the jewel. An earth elemental appears the 
next round and attacks the party. 

Earth Elemental: AC 2; MV 6"; HD 8; hp 
45; #AT 1; THACO 12; Dmg 8-32; SD +2 
weapon or better to hit 

The shaman does not know the power of the 
jewel, and thus is very surprised and terri 
fied at what has happened. He is rooted to 
the spot by his fear, but gestures and yells 
vile curses at the party (which might easily 
be misunderstood as commands to the ele 
mental). The item is a special one; there is 
no chance that the elemental attacks the 
bugbears. 

16. BILLIGAL'S QUARTERS 

The walls are draped with animal skins, and 
a low table occupies the northeast comer. 
The table supports some religious articles: 
carved bones, little bags of beads, polished 
stones, etc. There is also a large goblet 
shaped like an inverted dome on the table. It 
is filled with burning oil. Hanging on a peg 
near the doorway is a wet cloak. 

The goblet is King Llywelyn's Helm, a helm 
of telepathy, used now as a votive vessel by 
the witch doctor. The party must state that 
they are examining the goblet carefully. If they 
ask if it looks like a helm, tell them that it does. 
A detect magic yields a positive result. 

On the west wall, concealed behind the 
skins, is a doorway that leads directly out 
side. This is the witch doctor's secret 
entrance. The wet cloak is a tipoff that there 
is a hidden exit. If the party does not dis 
cover this exit, they must fight their way 
back to cave 2, encountering all warriors 
left alive in the caves. The return to Wid 
dershin is uneventful. 


24 














Scenario 4: Divine Wine 


PLAYERS' BACKGROUND 


All clues provided by the prophecy to 
prepare for the lost king's resurrection 
have been followed. However, King Lly- 
welyn has been dead for at least three 
hundred years. Extremely powerful 
magic is required to bring him back from 
the land of the dead. 

Sages, druids, alchemists and clerics 
were consulted, until it was clear that no 
one in the realm had the power to resur 
rect a man dead that long. Efforts to 
enlist the aid of Diancecht, god of heal 
ing, were unsuccessful. 

The Brothers of Brie knew not where 
to turn when Glynnis (or an NPC bard) 
mentioned an ancient melody, remem 
bered only by the bards, that spoke of 
the power of immortal Caer, a mighty 
wizard and alchemist. Of all the lore 
known to man, only Caer could supply 
the solution to the problem now facing 
Gwydion and the council as the people 
grow increasingly restless awaiting the 
return of their king. 

The ballad gave little hint as to where to 
search for Caer. The only geographical 
clue was a phrase that made note of some 
thing called "the Finger of the Good." The 
mountain called Dagda's Thumb is the 
only landmark that fits the tale, so you 
must seek the fate of the Kingdom of 
Pellham in the wilds to the east in search of 
Caer. Dagda's Thumb stands in a great 
bend of the River Luggh, a journey upriver 
from Widdershin. Two boats and the nec 
essary provisions have been provided by 
the council. You are to leave at once and 
return with the Elixir of Life as soon as pos 
sible. 


DUNGEON MASTER'S NOTES 

This is a wilderness adventure; player char 
acters are able to renew spells and rest 
between encounters, if they want to do so. 

The map is marked with their expected 
campsites, assuming a journey upriver in 
small boats. An opposing current of 3.5 
mph and the need for occasional rowing, 
reduces their progress to 30 miles per day 
under sail. If the party decides to leave their 
boats and travel overland, they cover 16 
miles per day. 

The following random encounter table 
should not be used in tournament play. In 
campaign play, make encounter checks in 
the morning and evening. 


RIVER LUGGH 

RANDOM ENCOUNTER TABLE 

An encounter occurs on a roll or 1 on ld20. 


Die 

Roll 

Encounter 

1-2 

5 fishermen in a small boat 

3 

2-20 wild cattle watering at riv 
er's edge 

4 

2-8 giant frogs 

5 

1-6 giant pike 

6 

1-3 black bears 

7 

1 giant snapping turtle 

8 

Adventuring party, 4-7 (ld4+3) 
NPCs 


The fishing boat can carry six people, and is 
equipped with a sail, four oars, and one 
spear. The fishermen are typical Level 0 
characters from Ciron's Town. Each man 
has a knife in addition to fishing gear. 

Each character in the NPC party is of 3- 
6th (ld4+2) level. At least one magic-user 
and one cleric is in the group. NPCs have 
normal equipment and magical items 
appropriate to their level (pp. 175-176 of the 
Dungeon Masters Guide). 

Fishermen and NPC parties almost 
always travel in the direction opposite of 
the party's travel, and do not have useful 
information. 

LUGGH RIVER ENCOUNTERS 

START 


The journey upriver has been uneventful, 
and you have all become accustomed to 
traveling in open boats. When you stopped 
for provisions at Ciron's Town, you 
received an interesting bit of information 
from a peddler who sold you fresh sup 
plies. He told you of a stretch of river 
ahead that is composed of short stretches 
of rapids separated by pools. It would be 
possible to get your small boats through, 
though dangerous. This may prove the 
more prudent course of action, as the por 
tage around this area is preyed upon by hill 
giants. 

It is now midmorning, and you are at 
the foot of the rapids. The decision must 
now be made. 


If the party chooses to remain on the river, 
use encounter 1. If they decide to use the 
portage route, go to encounter 2. 


1. THE RIVER RAPIDS 


The peddler was right in his assessment 
of the danger, though you have managed 
to get halfway through the rough water 
and are now in a calm pool. A large 
patch of weeds grows in this pool just left 
of center, and another stretch of rapids is 
visible above it. 


Privately tell whoever is playing Silevran 
that apparently a charm attempt has been 
made, successfully fended off by the elven 
resistance to charm. The player probably 
warns the rest of the party, and they must 
choose whether to continue on the river or 
go back to the portage. If they stay on the 
river, proceed with this encounter. If they 
attempt the portage, go to encounter 2. 

There are 30 nixies and three giant pike liv 
ing in the pool. 

Nixies (30): AC 7; MV 67/12HD 14 hp; 
hp 2 each; #AT 1; THACO 20; Dmg 14; 
SA charm 

Giant pike (3): AC 5; MV 36"; HD 4; hp 20, 
18, 16; #AT 1; THACO 15; Dmg 4-16 

The remaining two charm spells are cast on 
Berta and Brutelle. If either or both fail their 
saving throws, they attempt to jump over 
board, where the nixies are waiting for 
them. When they attempt to jump, allow 
the party time to react. If anyone success 
fully casts dispel magic, or attempts to 
physically restrain the charmed characters, 
they are saved (the restraining attempt suc 
ceeds automatically). The pixies do not 
leave the water, and do not attempt to over 
turn the boats. They order the giant pike to 
attack any uncharmed character who dives 
into the water. If charmed characters are not 
rescued, they are enslaved by the nixies. 

Once the party has passed the nixies' 
pool, they travel safely through the remain 
ing rapids. 

Tournament Notes: If dispel magic is cast, 
it automatically succeeds in negating the 
charm, regardless of whether the charmed 
character has entered the water. 

2. THE PORTAGE ROUTE 


The portage route is a narrow uphill 
track through a dry gorge. The edges of 
the gorge are covered by a dense growth 


26 








of tangled brush. The sound of the rapids 
can be clearly heard, but the ranger and 
the druid both note the lack of birds and 
small animals. 


Four player characters are needed to carry 
each boat, but they can carry it along the 
trail without difficulty. While the party is 
climbing uphill they are attacked by two 
giant lizards. 

Giant lizards (2): AC 5; MV 15"; HD 3+1; 
hp 20, 16; #AT 1; THACO 16; Dmg 1-8; 
SA a hit roll of 20 causes double damage 

The lizards emerge from the brush at the top 
of the gorge. Two rounds after they attack, a 
hill giant enters the fray. 

Hill giant: AC 4; MV 12"; HD 8+1; hp 35; 
#AT 1; THACO 12; Dmg 2-16 

He does not hurl rocks, as he might hit his 
lizards. 

Tournament Notes: The party does not 
spot any signs of the giant if they check in 
advance. The lizards automatically gain 
surprise and each receives one "free" attack. 

3. DEATH IN THE DARK 


Shortly after you resumed your normal 
journey upriver, you caught a glimpse of 
some man-sized creature moving 
through the brush along the riverbank, 
following your progress. From the river 
you cannot see clearly what, if anything, 
is following you. As the afternoon wears 
on these sightings occur less and less fre 
quently. Nightfall approaches, and it has 
been several hours since you last saw any 
sign of pursuit. 


The party discovers nothing if it stops to 
investigate. If they choose to camp for the 
night on shore, use Description A. If they 
journey upriver after dark, or if they stay in 
anchored boats, use Description B. 

Description A 


It is now dark, and your boats have been 
beached on the sandy shore. Everyone is 
beginning to relax from the day's ardu 
ous events. Halfway through the first 
watch, a thin, hoarse voice wheezes in 



the darkness, "Du-u-u-ga-a-a-a-1-1! Du- 
u-u-ga-a-a-a-1-1! I am coming for you!" 
You see nothing. 


The party has one round to take action 
before the attack begins. The voice is that of 
the revenant Gamrad Longlimb. 

Gamrad Longlimb: AC 10; MV 9"; HD 8; 
hp 33; #AT 1; THACO 12; Dmg 2-16; 
SA paralyzation (Dugal only); SD can 
not be turned, immune to all weapons, 
acid, gas, holy water, mind-affecting 
spells, regenerates 3 hp per round 

He has come to slay his killer. Dugal and 
Gamrad were old enemies, and a few months 
ago Dugal was forced to kill Gamrad in self- 
defense. Gamrad's hatred and desire for 
vengeance enabled him to assume this undead 
state. When the revenant attacks, tell the per 
son playing Dugal MacVey that the ranger rec 
ognizes the attacker. 

The revenant bursts into the camp and 
attacks Dugal, ignoring the other members of 
the party. Once the revenant has scored a hit, 
he causes 2-16 points of damage per round 
until Dugal is dead. The revenant disintegrates 
if it succeeds in killing Dugal. 

To add to the party's troubles, there are 
five shadows that attack the remainder of 
the party while Gamrad Longlimb is after 
Dugal. 

Shadows (5): AC 7; MV 12"; HD 3+3; hp 
11, 12, 17, 18, 19; #AT 1; THACO 16; 
Dmg 2-5 (ld4+l); SA strength drain; SD 
+1 or better weapons to hit 

Description B 


Your party has stayed on the river, 
though night has fallen. Suddenly, from 
out of the darkness comes a hoarse, 
wheezy voice saying, "Du-u-u-ga-a-a-a- 
1-1! Du-u-u-ga-a-a-a-1-1! I am coming for 
you!" You see nothing. 


The party has one round to act. After that 
the revenant of Gamrad Longlimb (see 
above) emerges from the water and boards 
Dugal's boat, seeking to kill the ranger. At 
the same time, five shadows attack the 
remainder of the party. 

Tournament Notes: The revenant always 
attempts to strangle its victim. The reve 
nant's hands are pried loose if characters 
with a combined strength of 30 make the 



attempt. The revenant is helpless if it is 
reduced to zero hit points or less. It is not 
able to attack until its regeneration restores 
it to a positive hit point total. 

The party can use lighted torches as 
weapons. A torch causes 1-6 points of dam 
age per hit. If used as a weapon, a torch 
burns out in six rounds, regardless of the 
number of hits scored. 

4. THE ATTACK OF THE PERYTONS 


You have left the scene of last night's ter 
rors far behind you, and the next morn 
ing you see the snow-capped peak of 
Dagda's Thumb jutting high above the 
river in the distance ahead. The river 
runs close to the base of the mountain, 
and continues as far as you can see. 

The morning light is still dim, and as 
you look for a place to land your boat, 
you see four winged shapes leave the 
mountain and fly toward you. 


The party does not find a suitable spot to 
land their boat before or during this 
encounter. As the creatures approach, the 
party recognizes them as four perytons. 

Perytons (4): AC 7; MV 12721"; HD 4; hp 
24, 21, 18, 16; #AT 1; Dmg 4-16; SA +2 to 
all hit rolls; SD +1 or better weapons to 
hit 

The party has two rounds to attack or make 
preparations before the perytons attack. 
The creatures spread out while approach 
ing, so that no more than one is caught in a 
fireball, lightning bolt or other spell. 

On the third round of the encounter, the 
perytons increase their speed and attack; 
conduct a normal initiative roll. Each pery- 
ton randomly chooses a single victim and 
attacks until it or the victim is dead. If the 
chosen victim is killed, the peryton rips out 
the victim's heart and flies away. The pery 
tons do not combine attacks against a single 
character, and do not attempt to capture 
party members. 

The lair of the perytons is near the sum 
mit of Dadga's Thumb, far above the cave 
which is the party's ultimate goal. If the 
party deliberately climbs to the summit in 
order to find the lair, they discover only 
some animal and human carcasses. These 
are captives recently taken for food. 


27 










5. THE ASCENT OF DAGDA'S THUMB 


Shortly after the battle with the pery- 
tons, you sight a narrow beach suitable 
for landing your boat. The peak of 
Dagda's Thumb towers above you. You 
land the boat and prepare for the ascent 
of the mountain, a climb that will obvi 
ously take several hours. 


Give the party as much time as they need to 
prepare for the climb. There are no moun 
tain paths visible, but the party can climb 
easily if they use ropes and spikes to anchor 
themselves. When they are ready to climb, 
proceed with the next encounter. 

The party does not have any accidents 
while climbing the mountain, as it is not 
sheer enough to cause a fatal fall. However, 
the party does not know this. If the party 
does not take reasonable precautions, ask 
each character to roll his dexterity or less on 
d20. Those who fail stumble while climbing. 
Give them other hints if needed. 


The temperature drops as you climb, 
until the air is freezing cold. You hear the 
howling of wolves above you. The cold 
intensifies while you clamber over the 
icy rim of the sixth in a series of ledges. 
Twenty feet away are four large, white 
dogs, facing you with bristles raised and 
teeth bared. One in the middle is much 
larger than the other three. Behind the 
dogs stands a man lightly dressed in ani 
mal skins, with a patch over his left eye. 
Behind him, a carved opening in the 
mountainside emits a warm glow. 


The encounter does not begin until the 
entire party has reached the ledge. The dogs 
are four devil dogs. 

Devil dogs (4): AC 6; MV 30HD 6; hp 15, 
17, 30, 21; #AT 1; THACO 13; Dmg 2-8; 
SA Howl causes fear, throat attack 

The largest dog (the one with 30 hp) can 
cause fear in characters sixth level and 
below. The usual -4 applies on character 
saving throws. If any devil dog scores a hit 
roll of 20, or a roll four higher than needed 
to hit, the victim takes double damage and 
is comatose for 2-8 turns. 

The man is a frost man. 

Frost man: AC 5; MV 12"; HD 4; hp 19; 
#AT 1; THACO 15; Dmg 1-6; SA ice 
blast 



He uses the ice blast only once. The ice blast 
causes 3-18 points of damage. The dogs and 
the frost man have been placed here by Caer 
as a final test for any who would seek him. 

If the players search the frost man, they 
find a map (FROST MAN'S MAP) hidden 
inside his clothing. 

There is no door in the cave opening, and 
the interior of a small, apparently heated 
room can be clearly seen. There is no furni 
ture, but there is a full-length mirror on one 
wall and an animal hide tacked to the wall 
next to it. The opening is not trapped or 
barred. 

If anyone examines the mirror, it is obvi 
ous that the mirror is a door. Another map 
(CAVE MAP) is hidden behind the animal 
hide. 

6. THE MIRROR MAZE 


Opening the door reveals a corridor 
beyond. The floor, ceiling, and walls are 
totally covered with mirrors. 


The party must travel through the mirror 
maze to reach Caer. Each 'G' on the map 
represents a gargoyle hidden behind magi 
cal one-way mirrors. 

Gargoyle: AC 5; MV 9715"; HD 4+4; hp 
22 each; #AT4; Dmg 1-3/1-3/1-6/1-4; +1 
or better weapons to hit 

They always attack the rear of the party, 
shattering the concealing mirror when they 
attack. At the 'X' on the map are the remains 
of a dead adventurer. 

If the party follows the mirror image of 
the CAVE MAP (assuming they found it) 
they have little difficulty getting through the 
maze. 

If the party follows the FROST MAN'S 
MAP, it is likely they become confused and 
lost. The dead adventurer at Point X carries 
a map like the FROST MAN'S MAP. 

7. THE RIDDLES OF THE STONE 


Having successfully passed the maze, 
you enter another small room. It is 
totally bare of furnishings, but in the 
center of the room is a boulder 3 feet in 
diameter at its base, tapering to 1 foot 
diameter at the top, and 5 feet high. A 
human-like nose and mouth are evident, 
and eyes as well, which are closed. The 
surface of the stone is translucent, and 



vague shapes can be seen, dimly and 
infrequently. Once all are inside, the 
rock opens its eyes and, with a bemused 
expression on its stony lips, it speaks. 

"My congratulations to you on your 
triumph, for few men or elves pass all the 
tests placed between Caer and the out 
side world. With what purpose have you 
journeyed to see me?" 


The party should realize that this boulder is 
Caer himself. His quest for immortality 
ended in his being transformed into stone, 
for few things last longer. Caer is of genius 
intelligence, though he does not give the 
party any additional information. He can 
not be damaged in any way. Once the party 
has stated their mission, Caer continues. 


"Indeed, Caer may be of assistance, and 
the price will be naught. I have but three 
simple questions to ask, and if all are 
answered correctly, the elixir you require 
will appear as beads of sweat upon my 
brow. There is but one restriction, that 
only one of you may respond at any 
given time, and this person must place 
his palms flat against my body while giv 
ing the answer." 


Caer proceeds to ask the following riddles, 
and the first must be answered correctly 
before he gives the second, etc. He ignores 
any answer, even a correct one, unless the 
person uttering it has stated he is holding his 
palms flat to the stone. 

Caer makes no mention of a penalty for 
an incorrect answer, and does not tell them 
even if asked. The penalty is that the 
responder is absorbed into the stone. This 
process cannot be halted, and once com 
pleted the victim is visible through the sur 
face of the boulder, a grotesque expression 
on his face as he presses futilely from the 
inside. This happens each time an incorrect 
answer is given. The only response that 
counts is the one from the character touch 
ing Caer while giving the answer. 

Each time a correct answer is given, Caer 
says, "Well said!" and one previously 
entrapped character is set free, none the 
worse for the experience. This restoration 
only occurs if one or more characters have 
already been absorbed, and correct answers 
do not accumulate. In other words, if the 
first two riddles are answered correctly and 
the first guess on the third one is incorrect, 


28 


























































































that person is absorbed, not to be released 
until the riddle is correctly answered. Obvi 
ously, 10 incorrect answers on the same rid 
dle results in the entrapment of 10 
characters. 

Riddle #1: "What is deaf, dumb and blind 
and always tells the truth?" 

Riddle #2: "What is always in front of you 
but cannot be seen?" 

Riddle #3: "What does man love more than 
life, hate more than death or mortal strife; 
that which contented men desire, the poor 
have, the rich require; the miser spends, the 
spendthrift saves, and all men carry to their 
graves?" 

The answers are #1 "a mirror," #2 "the 
future," and #3 "nothing." Once all three rid 
dles are properly solved, Caer, true to his 
word, sweats the elixir onto the surface of 
the stone, where it may be easily collected 
into a container. Caer then says, "I have 
enjoyed your company immensely, and 
wish you godspeed on your journey home. 
To save you a dangerous descent, allow me 
to place you at your camp by the River 
Luggh." The party is teleported back to the 
riverbank. 

Once the party has been teleported back 
to their boat, they are able to return to Wid- 
dershin without danger or difficulty. If they 
have acquired the elixir, they have success 
fully completed this part of their adventure. 


ENDING THE SCENARIOS 

At this point, the adventure can be ended. 
With the keys, the symbols, and the elixir, 
Lywelyn can be successfully brought back 
from the land of the dead and the characters 
can receive their final compensation. The 
sequel to this adventure The Bane of Lywe 
lyn presents a more arduous completion of 
this quest. If a break is required in this 
adventure, the Brothers of Brie can have dif 
ficulty deciphering the remainder of the 
prophecy. 

Scoring System 

Each major encounter is worth 100 points. 
Modify this amount if the players do not 
resolve the scenarios. For a specific objec 
tive, award 500 points. This will eliminate 
the possibility of one team earning many 
points, but not completing the objective. 



30 


TOURNAMENT CHARACTERS FROM GEN CON(r) XVI CONVENTION 


l 



££ ^ I 

vo vo I 

04 04 


^ ^ ^ 

04 O 04 
OO G\ Q\ 


O O O 
04 04 04 


^ ^ ^ 

04 \D o 
CO CO 


^ ^ ^ 

04 VO O' 
VO 'vt ^t 


# ^ ^ 

O O VO 
'sO ^ ^ 


# ^ ^ 

O' 04 04 
in in 


^ ^ I 

O VO I 
'sO VO 



I 


*Ringo's CON bonus included. Arwyn's cloak bonus included. @1985 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 




CHARACTERS' EQUIPMENT 


Character 

Weapons 

Magical Items 

Equipment 

Lyman 

Dagger 

bracers of defense AC 

5, potion of fire 
resistance, scroll (at 

L7): dispel magic, 
extention 1 

dagger, 2 oil flasks, 

5) rope, rations, 50 
gp, spell books, 
components 

Silevran 

Q. staff, 
darts 

ring of protection 
+2, potion of 
healing, wand of 
lightning (8 charges) 

a 

q. staff, 12 darts, 
backpack, 50' rope, 2 
water flasks, rations, 

5 ep, spell books, 
components 

Jenelle 

Mace, 

hammer 

hammer +1, 
chainmail 
+ 1, potion of 
extra-healing 

mace, 2 hammers, 
shield, holy symbol, 
pray beads, lantern, 5 
oil flasks, silver, 
mirror, 30 gp, 
components 

Tremblaine 

Q. staff, 
mace 

mace +1, shield +1, 
potion of 
extra-healing 

mace, q. staff, scale 
mail, wolfsbane, extra 
trousers, rations, 20 
gp gem, components 

Arwyn 

Spear, 

sling 

spear +2, cloak of 
protection +2, dust 
of appearance (1) 

spear, sling, leather 
armor, sandals, silver 
bowl, rations, 
components 


Brutelle 

Battle ax, 
longsword 

longsword +1, 
chainmail +2, boots 
of levitation 

battle ax, 2 hand axes, 
longsword, 6 torches, 
tinderbox, backpack, 
3 iron spikes, rations, 
35 sp 

Dugal 

Broadsword, broadsword +1, 3 
hand ax, arrows + 2, ring mail 

shortbow, + 1, shield +1 

dagger 

broadsword, hand ax, 
2 daggers, shortbow, 
quiver/20 arrows, 3 
torches, tinderbox, 
cloak, rations 

Ringo 

Short 

sword, 

club, 

dagger 

net of entrapment, 
potion of healing 

short sword, club, 
dagger, leather armor, 
thieves tools, large 
sack, 50' rope, extra 
robes, rations, 30 gp 
gem 

Glynnis 

Longsword, 

javelin, 

daggers, 

sling 

longsword + 1, 
leather armor +2 
Fouchlucan bandore 

2 javelins, dagger, 
sling, 5 sling bullets, 
theives' tools, 2 song 
books, rations, 

4 x 15 gp gems, 
components 

Berta 

Club, jo 

stick, 

dagger 

necklace of missiles 
(5-3-3) 

club, jo stick, 2 
daggers, thieves' 
tools, extra pants, 
rations 


SPELL LIST 


Magic-users 



Druid/Bard 



First Level 

Second Level 

Third Level 

First Level 

Second Level 

Third Level 

Affect Normal Fires 

Continual Light 

Blink 

Detect Magic 

Barkskin 

Call Lightning 

Burning Hands 

Detect Invisible 

Dispel Magic 

Detect Snares/Pits 

Create Water 

Cure Disease 

Dancing Lights 

Invisibility 

Feign Death 

Entangle 

Cure Light 

Hold Animal 

Detect Magic 

Knock 

Fireball 

Faerie Fire 

Wounds 

Neutralize Poison 

Feather Fall 

Levitate 

Flame Arrow 

Invis. to Animals 

Feign Death 

Protection/Fire 

Hold Portal 

Magic Mouth 

Gust of Wind 

Pass without Trace 

Heat Metal 

Snare 

Magic Missile 

Shatter 

Hold Person 

Predict Weather 

Obscurement 

Tree 

Push 

Wizard Lock 

Prot/Norm Missiles 

Purify Water 

Produce Flame 

Water Breathing 

Read Magic 


Lightning Bolt 

Shillelagh 

Trip 

Shield 

Shocking Grasp 


Water Breathing 

Speak with Animals 

Warp Wood 



Sleep 

Spider Climb 

Clerics 

First Level 

Second Level 

Third Level 

Bless 

Chant 

Create Food and 

Command 

Detect Charm 

Water 

Create Water 

Find Traps 

Cure Blindness 

Cure Light Wounds 

Hold Person 

Cure Disease 

Detect Evil 

Resist Fire 

Dispel Magic 

Detect Magic 

Silence 15'r. 

Feign Death 

Light 

Slow Poison 

Prayer 

Prot/Evil 

Snake Charm 


Purify Food/Drink 

Spiritual Hammer 

Remove Fear 



Resist Cold 



Sanctuary 




9107XXX1S01 








Advanced 

Dungeonsj^pragons 

Official Competition Adventure 


To Find a King 

Bob Blake 


Two centuries ago, the last king of the Celtic king 
dom of Pellham was deposed in favor of a High 
Council. Now, however, things are going badly, and 
a restless populace longs for the days of the ancient 
kingship. The High Council is floundering - and 
the political situation is turning ugly. 

It was then that the Brothers of Brie, an obscure 
monastic order, discovered a long-forgotten proph 
ecy. In Pellham's time of greatest need, a long-dead 
king will rise to restore order. You have been chosen 
to prove that this is the time of the prophecy. You 
will take the first steps toward returning the lost 
king to the throne. 

This adventure contains the first four rounds of 
the AD&D(r) OPEN Tournament that was originally 
run at the GEN CON R) XVI Convention. It includes a 
tournament scoring system and a team of 10 char 
acters of levels 4-7. 

This adventure can be played alone or as the first 
part of the two-part PROPHECY OF BRIE series. 

This adventure is for use with the ADVANCED 
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS(r) gaming system and 
cannot be played without the AD&D(r) rules pro 
duced by TSR, Inc. 


1984 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in U.S.A. 


TSR, Inc. 
POB 756 
Lake Geneva 
Wl53147 


TSR UK Ltd. 
The Mill, Rathmore Road 
Cambridge CB1 4AD 
United Kingdom 


0-88038-159-0 

ISBN 394-54549-4TSR0600 



9107XXX1401 




































