Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09055 I 2 Tomb Of The Lizard King"
See other formats
12 Adventure Module for Character Levels 5-7 


9055 


Advanced 

Dunseons^^ragons(r) 

Fantasy Adventure Module 


Tomb of the Lizard King 

by Mark Acres 



Ruthless brigands have brought a halt to the trade between the land of Eor and its 
neighbors to the south. The military forces sent by the Count of Eor to eliminate these 
cutthroats have mysteriously vanished. Even worse, there are rumors of an ancient 
evil once more abroad in the land. Can your party of adventurers succeed where 
troops have failed? 








ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS(r) 
DUNGEON MODULE 12 


TOMB OF THE LIZARD KING 

BY MARK ACRES 

Adventure Module for Character Levels 5-7 


If the brigands who are raiding the land of Eor are only brigands, why are merchants so terrified? And 
what are 
these rumors that are whispered among frightened villagers-rumors of an old, enormously evil power 
that lies 
behind the series of robberies? The Count of Eor wants your party to get to the truth! 

Editor: Michael Williams 

Distributed to the book trade in the United States by Random House, Inc., and in Canada by Random 
House of 

Canada, Ltd. 

Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors. 

Distributed in the United Kingdom by TSR Hobbies (UK) Ltd. 

This module is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or 
other 
use of the material or artwork contained herein is prohibited without the express written permission of 
TSR 

Hobbies, Inc. 

ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, D&D AND FIEND FOLIO are 

registered trademarks owned by TSR Hobbies, Inc. 

(c)1982 TSR Hobbies, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


TSR Hobbies, Inc. TSR Hobbies (UK) Ltd. 

POB 756 The Mill, Rathmore Road 

Lake Geneva Cambridge CB14AD 

WI 53147 United Kingdom 9055 


Printed in U.S.A. 
ISBN 0 88038-024-1 
394-53152-3TSR0550 



ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS (r) 
Dungeon Module 12 


THE TOMB OF THE LIZARD KING 

INTRODUCTION 

For many years there has been peace in the lands of the Count of Eor. The fertile plain of the River Ardo 
has 
yielded bountifully, commerce has prospered, and the rule of the successive Counts of Eor has been 
generally 
wise and just. But of late, disturbing reports of highway robbery have reached the palace at Vendare, 
the major 
city of Eor. According to the tales of whimpering merchants, the southlands are being overrun by a band 
of 
vicious brigands. Already there has been a complete halt to the rich trade caravans to and from Eor's 
southern 
neighbors. 

Three weeks ago the Count of Eor sent a squad of 30 fighting men to the affected area near the small 
village of 
Waycombe. So far there has been no report, no message, no rider - not even a rumor of their fate. 
Suddenly 
gravely concerned, the count has called for a special group of volunteers to go to the Waycombe area, 
discover 
the fate of the first expedition, investigate the reports of highway robbery, and if possible put an end to 
this 
trouble. Those who answer his call can expect danger, but also great reward, for the count is known as a 
generous man who rewards his loyal subjects well. 

STOP! If you are going to participate as a player in this adventure, do not read any farther. The 
remainder of 
the information in this booklet is intended for use by the Dungeon Master only. Reading this information 
will 
only ruin much of the fun and excitement of playing the adventure. 

NOTES FOR THE DUNGEON MASTER 

Sakatha: Sakatha, the Great Lizard King, is one of the stranger beings ever to challenge the wits and 
courage of a party of adventurers. It is he who is behind the highway robbery in the south, although he 
is 
no mere brigand! 

Some 250 years ago Sakatha came into existence. How this happened no one is sure, for this strange 
being 
combined the grotesqueness of the race of lizard men with the intelligence the race of men. He also had 
a 
large share of the greed, rapacity and evil which is, alas, to be found in both races. 

In his lifetime Sakatha came to rule supreme over the lizard men of the Great Southern Swamp. His 
armies 
in time extended his rule over the men by the Ardo, and at one time he actually ruled a slave population 
in 
all of what is now Eor 

The extent of his rule brought great wealth to Sakatha, and he was able to employ the services of many 
powerful and evil mages in his various projects. The greatest task was the building of his own tomb, a 
vast 
temple/tomb complex hidden in the heart of the Great Southern Swamp, laden with treasure and 
magical 
items for Sakatha's use in his afterlife. 

During his days of glory Sakatha also had the great fortune to stumble upon one of the rarest of magic 
treasures: a ring of wishes. Instructed by the mages he employed (and some say despite their 
treachery), 
Sakatha used this item to obtain spell casting powers for himself, eventually achieving status as a 9 th 
level 
magic user. 


However, Sakatha did not always make the wisest use of his ring. His great intelligence was often 
blinded 
by his obsessions with self-glorification. A rash deed that would make him appear heroic always 
appealed 
more to his selfish, chaotic 



It was this weakness that prevented him from using the wish powers of the ring against the inevitable 
rebellion of men of Eor. Instead, Sakatha fought them himself, riding into battle the head of his lizard 
men. 
He was mortally wounded in a great battle by the man who became the first Count of Eor. 

As Sakatha lay dying on the field, his shattered army scattering all around him, he spoke his final wish: 
that 
he might live to drink the very blood of those who had defeated him, and the of blood of their offspring 
through the ages. Thus it was that Sakatha, by means of this badly worded dying wish, provided, the 
means 
for his own return. After 200 years he has come back in a new form, a form suited to fulfill the contents 
of 
his wish exactly: Sakatha has awakened as a vampire. 

Sakatha's main goals are to reassert his power over the Great. Southern Swamp and Eor, and to take 
horrible revenge on the house of the Counts of Eor. His power is very great, but fortunately his chaotic 
nature makes it difficult for him to maintain a steady drive toward these goals. 

His reappearance is regarded as a great opportunity by the forces of chaos, especially the demon 
worshipping cleric Mordrin. In order that he might fully exploit this opportunity, Mordrin has formed a 
shaky alliance with Sakatha and is busily working to establish a stronghold for his vile faith in the areas 
near the swamp. 

Evil creatures of many types, including the band of brigands now terrorizing the southern lands of Eor, 
have naturally been drawn to Sakatha's presence. These brigands are of course mere pawns in the 
hands of 
Sakatha and Mordrin - the first little ripple of what these two envision as a wave of evil that will sweep 
over the land of Eor. 

The Dungeon Master should keep this background information nature in mind at all times. He must 
remember that Sakatha's chaotic nature is probably the single biggest advantage the player characters 
will 
have when they confront this being and his followers. 

Preparing For Play: Proper handling of this module will require careful preparation by the Dungeon 
Master. It is absolutely essential that the Dungeon Master read the entire contents of this module, and 
carefully study the major encounters, before play begins. There are several major NPCs whom the 
Dungeon Master will want to invest with full personalities, and several encounters will require 
thoughtful 
preparation. 

Adventuring Characters: This module is specially designed for a party of seven to nine characters varying 
in level from 5 th to 7 th . It is very important that the party balance good fighting ability with strong 
spell 
casting ability. Clerics will be especially important in this adventure. However, under no circumstances 
should the Dungeon Master allow any cleric of greater than 7 th level to participate, as this would 
seriously 
unbalance the climactic encounter. 

Special Warning: Before beginning play the Dungeon Master should warn his players that this particular 
module is extremely hazardous. It is specifically designed to put characters of the specified levels to a 
severe test. Success in this adventure will require that the party exercise the utmost caution, think a 
great 
deal, and still be ready to "hack and slash" against powerful opponents. Some players may not want to 
risk 
their favorite characters in an adventure of this difficulty. In such cases, it is recommended that the 
Dungeon Master allow the use of the pregenerated characters included in the back pages of this 
module. 

Maps: Included in this module are the following maps: a hex map of Eor, a detail map of the palace of 
the 
Count of Eor at Vendare, a detail map of the village of Waycombe, a hex map of the Great Southern 
Swamp, and four dungeon level maps. The players may be allowed to look at and use the maps of Eor, 
the 
palace, and of Waycombe; the details they show are all common knowledge to people of the area. All 
other 
maps should be kept for use by the Dungeon Master only. 


Movement, Food, Shelter: Details pertaining to movement rates, obtaining food and shelter, random 
encounters, and other necessary information are included in the appropriate encounter sections. 



Time: The DM must keep careful track of game time once the PCs enter Aulicus' lair or Dungeon Level 1. 
Accurate timekeeping is crucial to determine the outcome of the final encounter with Sakatha. 


Players' Descriptions: Throughout this module, material that should be read to the players at the 
beginning of an encounter is boxed for easy reference. 

Beginning Play: Read the players the first two paragraphs under the heading "Introduction'' above. 
Continue by reading the player's description for the first encounter, and begin play with that encounter 
immediately. The characters should have spells prepared and weapons chosen before play begins, but 
any 
other equipping should be done after playing the encounters below under "The Palace of the Count of 
Eor." 


THE PALACE OF THE COUNT OF EOR 


1. A PRIVATE MEETING: Hearing of the count's need, your party has responded. Brigands usually 
manage to accumulate a good deal of treasure, and they usually aren't particularly tough to handle. 
These 
brigands, however, may be tougher than usual, for as you sit waiting outside the count's audience 
chamber, 
you see a succession of seasoned fighters enter full of enthusiasm, only to leave shortly with looks of 
disappointment and fear. 

As you sit pondering this strange situation, the door to the audience chamber swings open and the 
chamberlain announces that it is now your party's turn to meet the Count of Eor. 

As you enter, you see John Brunis, fifth Count of Eor, seated comfortably on a high seat at the end of a 
long table. Standing behind him, resplendent in his robes of bright yellow and blue, is Jorlon, the High 
Priest of Vendare, a man who commands a large following among the men of Eor. In his right hand 
Jorlon 
holds a slim, tapered wand of ivory. The tip of this wand is made of beryl. 

The room itself is richly but tastefully appointed with curtains, tapestries, and other objects of value. 

"Welcome, courageous volunteers!" the count says to you. "I assume you understand the nature of the 
task 
at hand?" John Brunis (AC 10; MV 12"; F 15; hp 72; #AT 2; D 1-4; AL LG) is unarmored and carries only 
a ceremonial dagger. 

Jorlon, High Priest of Vendare (AC 10; MV 12"; C9; hp 41; #AT 1; D by weapon; AL LG), is unarmored 
and unarmed. Jorlon's spells are: 

First level: bless, command, cure light wounds, detect evil, detect magic, sanctuary 

Second level: augury (x3), hold person, know alignment, slow poison 

Third level: cure blindness, cure disease, dispel magic, prayer 

Fourth level: cure serious wounds, divination 

Fifth level: commune 

Brunis will question the party members about their experiences, previous adventures, and skill in 
dealing 
with danger. He will then simply chat for awhile, apparently trying to get some idea of the nature of the 
party. Jorlon will stand quietly, seeming to be almost asleep on his feet and taking no notice of the 
conversation. In fact, the wand in his hands is a wand of enemy detection that he has already used to 
determine that the party is not immediately hostile. He is now quietly performing an augury, using 
several 
small beads hidden in his left hand. The hand is covered by the sleeves and folds of his robe. 



After three or four minutes, Jorlon will look directly at John Brunis and nod his head once slowly. Brunis 
will now become very businesslike. Have him say to the party: 


"You are accepted for this task. What you must do seems simple. Travel to the village of Waycombe in 
the south. Learn the fate of my squad of men; they were led by Barto Trume, one of my most trusted 
soldiers. Then find these detestable brigands and eliminate them; summary justice is approved by my 
authority. Above all else, find out if there is any further evil behind these vicious attacks. If so, eliminate 
it. Your reward for success will be whatever you regain from the evil you discover, plus my personal 
gratitude." 

To the best of his ability, the count will answer any questions the party may have at this time. He will 
agree to cover the costs of outfitting the party with any unusual or costly items they desire, as long as 
their 
demands do not exceed 2500 gp worth of merchandise. If party members ask whether the count has 
reason 
to believe there is more near Waycombe than mere brigands, he will simply glance at Jorlon, smile, and 
say, "So 1 have been told." Jorlon will say nothing, even if directly questioned. 

The count will then suggest that the party come into the main council room where merchants have 
assembled to give their firsthand reports to the party selected to deal with the brigands. 


2. THE MERCHANTS'COMPLAINTS: The count leads you into the large chamber used for public 
audiences. He sits behind the center of a long table, facing the crowd in the room, and gestures for you 
to 
take seats on either side of him. Jorlon, silent as ever, stands behind the count. 

The audience chamber is filled with merchants. Their chattering has been hushed by the count's 
entrance. 
Scattered about the room are a few men clad in armor, obviously mercenary guards. The two large 
doors at 
the rear of the chamber are manned by guards in the count's livery. In each corner behind you, you 
notice a 
cleric in yellow and blue robes. Both are standing quietly with their heads lowered, occasionally 
muttering 
a soft word of devotion to themselves or to their deity. 

In addition to the party, Count Brunis, and Jorlon, the following people are in the room: 

23 merchants (AC 10; MV 12"; F 0; hp 5x1, 3x2, 4x3, 4x4, 5x5, 2x6; #AT 1; D by weapon type) who are 
unarmored and unarmed; 

6 mercenary guards (AC 5; MV9"; FO; hp2x4, 3x5, 1x6; #AT 1, D by weapon type) who have been 
disarmed before being allowed in the audience hall; 

2 clerics (AC 10; MV 12"; C 3; hp 12, 15; #AT 1; D by weapon type) who are without armor or weapons. 
Their spells: 

#1. First level: bless, cure light wounds, detect evil, protection from evil 
Second level: chant 

#2. First level: bless, cure light wounds 
Second level: know alignment 

The count will introduce the party to this assembly, then ask the merchants to give what information 
they 
can to the party. The result will be a babble of wailing, moaning and groaning over goods and treasure 
lost, 
guards killed, captured or fled, and so forth. In fact, the din will become so unmanageable that the count 
will order silence, and suggest that the party question the merchants, rather than letting the merchants 
all 
speak freely. 

All of the merchants in the room are involved in the caravan trade with Eor's southern neighbors. Some 
are honest, a few are not, but none are in league with the brigands. All have suffered losses from the 



brigand raids. In answer to specific questions from party members, the merchants will provide the 
following information. 


1. The attacks by the brigands almost always occur along the main highway near Waycombe and the 
Great 
Southern Swamp. 

2. The brigands always seem to come from the south. 

3. The brigands look like normal men. 

4. The merchants believe the brigands to be very tough fighters. Their mercenary guards have been 
ineffective against the brigands; most of the guards seem to flee the instant the attacks begin. 

5. The brigands actively pursue the fleeing guards. The merchants believe that many have been taken 
prisoner. 

6. The brigand attacks are always preceded by the appearance of a harmless-looking little old man who 
stops the head of the merchants' columns to ask for directions. 

If the party questions any of the fighters present, they will be able to add that only a few brigands 
appear to 
be really tough fighters; most of the brigands choose to pursue the panic-stricken guards who flee when 
the 
attacks begin. So far, none of the guards have been able to take a brigand prisoner; indeed, they are 
usually 
lucky to escape with their lives. There is usually great confusion during the brigand attacks, so the 
number 
of brigands is hard to estimate. 

Note that the only way that the party may obtain this information is by careful questioning. The 
Dungeon 
Master should not give away any of this information unless the party asks the proper questions. 

While the party is questioning the merchants and their guards, the Dungeon Master should roll secretly 
for 
each character to determine if anyone is able to detect that the room is being scried. Each character's 
percent chance to detect scrying is the same as his or her percent chance to detect invisible objects as 
explained on page 60 of the Dungeon Masters Guide. Any character who does detect scrying should be 
privately informed by the Dungeon Master that he or she "has a strong feeling that someone is watching 
the 
party." 

(The scrying is being done by Sakatha, who is using a crystal ball to keep track of happenings in the 
count's palace. A dispel magic spell will fog his crystal ball.) 

The Dungeon Master should also occasionally remind the party of the presence of the clerics in the 
corners 
behind them. The Dungeon Master should do this by saying, every few minutes, "And of course you hear 
the clerics in the background saying 'May the powers of good protect this place and all herein' and other 
things of this sort." 



Any character who keeps a careful watch on these clerics will notice that after a few minutes one of 
them 
leaves and is replaced by another from outside the room. This is a scheduled routine relief; Brunis and 
Jorlon will take no notice of it. The replacement cleric is dressed identically to the first one and will 
behave in exactly the same way. However, he is in fact the chaotic evil High Priest Mordrin, an ally of 
Sakatha: 

Mordrin (AC 5; MV9"; hp 39; #AT 1; D2-7+2; AL CE) is wearing chain mail beneath his robes, and is 
armed with a mace +2. He is carrying two packets of dust of disappearance. His spells: 

First level: command (x3), protection from good, cause fear Second level: hold person (x2), know 

alignment, spiritual hammer 

Third level: dispel magic, feign death, curse 

Fourth level: cure serious wounds, undetectable lie 

Fifth level: flame strike 

After rolling for the detection of scrying and giving any successful character a chance to take action, the 
Dungeon Master should resume playing the role of the merchants, and continue to mimic occasionally 
the 
chanting of the clerics. The third time he repeats the chanting, the Dungeon Master should say, "Oh 
great 
power of evil, destroy now thine enemies. . . " The Dungeon Master should then count to five out loud. 

Any characters till within 10'of the count's table when the Dungeon Master reaches "five" will be caught 
in 
the flame strike that has just been cast by Mordrin. Characters who save vs. Spells will take 3-24 points 
of 
damage; those who fail their save will suffer the full 6-48 points of damage. 

Any character who reacts in time to avoid the flame strike will also have been able to spot the cleric who 
cast it. The other characters will not realize for one melee round exactly what has happened. 

Mordrin had hoped to kill the Count of Eor with this flame strike. After casting it, he will attempt to 
escape, using his robes as a disguise. The merchants, mercenary guards, and count's guards present will 
all 
be too stunned to react swiftly; if Mordrin is to be stopped, he must be stopped by the party. Mordrin's 
preferred plan is to use the melee round after the flame strike to cast a sanctuary spell on himself, then 
duck 
out of the room and use his dust of disappearance. The invisibility provided by this dust will last2-20 
turns, 
and is proof against all normal means of detection, and even against a detect invisibility spell. 

The Dungeon Master may modify this plan as the situation requires; however, it is very important that 
every effort be made to allow Mordrin to escape. The Dungeon Master should assume that once 
Mordrin 
makes it outside the palace gates, he has effectively escaped. 

In the unlikely event that Mordrin is captured, he will resist all attempts at interrogation, will attempt to 
escape by any means possible, and will prefer death to giving any information to the count or the party. 
It 
is vitally important that the party not learn the secret of Sakatha's reappearance at this time. 

Meanwhile, the Dungeon Master should note that, even if the party attempts to warn them before the 
flames 
hit, both John Brunis and Jorlon will be caught in the flame strike. Both should automatically make their 
saving throws, and thus survive, although Jorlon will be quite busy tending the wounds of the count. 

3. AFTERMATH: Following the attack by Mordrin, the count will urge the party to make all possible 
speed on their mission, for he now "fears the worst" and feels that "quick, decisive action is vitally 
important." More than this he will not willingly say. If compelled to speak by some magic means, he will 
share his fears about vague legends he has heard concerning the Great Lizard King Sakatha, who once 
dwelled in the Great Southern Swamp. According to legends, this horrid being is to return someday to 
take 
vengeance on the house of the Counts of Eor. 


If one or more party members were killed by Mordrin's flame strike, Jorlon will agree to cast a raise 
dead 
spell, provided the party agrees to be quested to perform their mission for the count. 



The party may purchase any type of normal equipment in the town of Vendare. Information, however, 
will 
be harder to find. The only knowledge available in the city is the fact that peasants in the south are 
reputed 
to know many legends about lizard men who lived in the Great Southern Swamp a very long time ago. 

Some parties will insist upon outfitting a fake merchant's caravan to make the trip to the south. The 
Count 
of Eor will strongly advise against this plan, citing the dangers of both delay in preparation and of 
surprise 
attack. An extremely insistent party will be able to persuade the count to bear the expenses of outfitting 
such an expedition. The count will agree to pay for 20 mercenary guards (normal men with 1-6 hit points 
each, armed with swords). These guards will not fight, however, unless it is absolutely necessary in order 
to save their own lives. They will give up accompanying the party when they reach Waycombe. 


THE JOURNEY TO WAYCOMBE 

The Dungeon Master may show the party the hex map of the country of Eor, and allow the party to use 
it 
when planning and making their journey to the Waycombe area. The rate of travel on the highways or 
through the countryside will be40 miles (8hexes) per d for a party mounted on average horses, or half 
that 
rate for a party on foot. Food and shelter are readily available at the inns mark along the way, and from 
peasants in the villages indicated on the map. 

Sakatha will attempt to scry the party once per night, at about midnight, from now until the party 
reaches 
the temple in the swam The Dungeon Master should roll a secret check for each character each night at 
midnight to see if this scrying is detected. If the scrying is detected, the Dungeon Master should simply 
tell 
the character that he or she feels as if someone is watching him. The Dungeon Master should not tell 
the 
party directly that scrying is taking place; players should figure this out on their own. 

The party may have two types of encounters on the journey south to the Waycombe area: random 
encounters and planned encounters. 

RANDOM ENCOUNTERS 

The Dungeon Master should check for a random encounter three times per day during the journey to 
the 
Waycombe area. There is 1 chance in 12 each check that a random encounter will occur. When a 
random 
encounter is called for, the Dungeon Master may select the encounter himself from the following table, 
or 
roll it randomly using Id 10. No encounter from the following table should occur more than once; if 
duplicate encounters are indicated by the dice, roll again until another result is obtained. 

RANDOM ENCOUNTER TABLE 

Die Roll Encounter 


1 Wild Boar 

2 Giant ants 

3 Refugees 

4 Stragglers 

5 Hill Giants 

6 Ogres 

7 Wolves 

8 Lizard Men 

9 Old Man 

10 Clerics 


1. WILD BOAR 


1 Wild boar (AC 7; MV1 5"; HD 3+3; hp 19; #AT 1; D 3-12) 



5 normal men (farmers) (AC 10; MV 12"; NM; #AT 1; D 1-6 The men are farmers from the area who are 
chasing the wild boar with large sticks (treat as clubs). These men have little information to offer, but 
will 
be glad to give food and shelter for the night in return for the party's aid in killing the wild boar. Each 
man 
has his own small hut, a wife, and 1-4 children, only treasure possessed by these farmers is 1-10 gp kept 
in 
each home. 

Note that these farmers will have heard some rumors about brigandage. If the encounter takes place 
within 
one day's journey of Waycombe, the farmers will be fearful for their own safety and discussing the 
possibility of leaving the area before they, too, are attacked by the brigands. 


2. GIANT ANTS 

20 Giant ants (AC 3; MV 18"; HD 2; hp 2x3, 3x6, 2x8, 2x9, 5x10, lxll, 1x12, 2x13, 2x14; #AT 1; D 1-6) 

This is a party of workers from a nearby nest of giant ants. They will not attack unless a member of the 
party comes within feet of them. They are carrying bits of food, large sticks, a other debris of little 
interest. 
One of the ants, however, has a bit of cloth which clearly shows the insignia of the Count of Eor. This 
insignia will not be noticed until the party comes within 10 feet of the ants. 

3. REFUGEES 

5 Men (AC 10; MV 12"; NM; hp 2x2,2x3,1x4; #AT 1; D 1-6) 7Women and 13 children, who do not fight. 

These are peasant refugees from the Waycombe area. They look tired and hungry. Their goal is to reach 
Vendare in hope finding food, shelter, and aid from the Count of Eor. 

If questioned by the party, the refugees will tell of crops ruined, friends stolen away from their homes in 
the 
middle of the night and murder and vandalism by a band of brigands. They will also tell the party wild 
tales about "terrible things" that come the night along with the brigands. These "terrible things" will be 
described in a number of ways: some of the men will say that they appear human; others will say not; 
some 
will say they fly, others will say they don't. 

The refugees have no treasure. 

4. STRAGGLERS 

4 Men (AC 5; MV 9"; F 0; hp 2x3, 1x4, 1x6; #AT 1; D 1-8). These four haggard-looking men are wearing 
the colors of the Count of Eor. They are stragglers from the original party of 30 and were among the first 
to run when the fighting began. If the party is displaying anything that would identify them as being in 
the 
service of the count of Eor, these stragglers will attempt the to avoid them. If not, they will approach the 
party cautious 


All four men feel ashamed for having run away at the start the fight, but also are afraid of being 
punished, 
and thus will attempt to conceal what really happened. At first, they will say 



only that they are soldiers in the service of the count, and that their business is their own. If compelled 
to 
speak truthfully, they will admit that they were part of the troop sent to Waycombe. They will tell the 
players that when the troop stopped to give directions to a little old man, they were suddenly attacked 
by 
brigands hiding in the bushes near the road. These four, along with many others, fled immediately, 
although they are not sure why they were so scared at the time. 

These men will not want to aid the party. If compelled to serve, they will desert at the first opportunity. 
They have no treasure other than their normal weapons (long swords) and armor. 

5. HILL GIANTS 

3 Hill Giants (AC 4; MV 12"; HD 8+1-2; hp 37, 43, 50; #AT 1; D 2-16; SA hurling rocks for 2-16; SD 
catching similar missiles, 30%) 

These three fine fellows are wandering the plains in search of loot, food and fun. They will choose to 
avoid 
a heavily armed party or caravan, but will attack on sight a party that consists solely of the player 
characters. The giants know nothing about the activity of the brigands in the Waycombe area. They 
know 
nothing about the fate of the count's men. 

Treasure: Bag of 100 gp, looted from a merchant who was 
fleeing a brigand attack. 

6. OGRES 

5 Ogres (AC 5; MV 9" HD 4+1; hp 23, 21,19, 15, 13; #AT 1;D 1-10) 

These ogres have been attracted to the area by the general devastation caused by the brigands. They 
will 
attempt to ambush a party consisting solely of the players, attacking by leaping from the scrub brush 
along 
the road. They have no information useful to the party. 

Treasure: 50 gp per ogre. 

7. WOLVES 

15 Common Wolves (AC 7; MV 18"; HD 2+2; hp 2x7, 1 x8, 1x9, 4x11, 2x12, 2x13, 2x14,1x16, #AT 1; D 2- 

5) 

These wolves have been attracted by the relatively easy hunting in the area. They will attack on sight 
any 
party of 12 or fewer individuals. 

8. LIZARD MEN 

12 Lizard Men (AC 5; MV 6"//12" 2+1; hp 1x5, 1x6, 4x7, 2x9,1x10, 2x11, 2x13, 1x17, #AT 3; D 1-2/1-2/1-
8) 

This is a roving band of lizard men from the Great Southern Swamp that surrounds the Tomb of the 
Lizard 
King. The fact that they are openly roaming this far from the swamp should be a sure indication to an 
intelligent party of the nature of the real trouble at Waycombe! 

These warriors will be extremely confident and extremely hostile to the party, attacking immediately 
unless 
the party consists of more than 12 members. In combat the Lizard Men will do everything possible to 
take 
prisoners. These prisoners will be taken to Sakatha, and will be used as sacrifices by his demon 
worshipping allies. On the way to Sakatha's fortress, there will be no chance to escape: players will be 
tightly bound and closely watched. Upon arriving at the tomb, they will be 

kept in Room 16 of the Lower Temple, where they will be fed once a day for the week until they will be 
brought before Sakatha, tortured, then sacrificed. Their chances will be slim if they can find a way to 
escape: unarmed in the heart of the Lizard King's dungeon! 


9. OLD MAN 

1 Man (AC 10; MV 9"; NM; hp 2; #AT None; D None) 



An old man in tattered clothing will approach the party, using the main road. He will ask directions to 
Vehdare, saying that he is trying to find some relatives who fled Waycombe. This old man is completely 
harmless. He has no treasure or information. 

10. CLERICS 

4 Human Clerics: 

Achmar (AC 2; C 3; hp 17; #AT 1; D 1-6; AL LG) armed with a mace and mounted on a medium war 
horse. His spells: 

First level: bless, command, sanctuary, cure light wounds 
Second level: silence 15' radius 

Merloc (AC 10; C 1; hp 4; #AT 1; D 1-6; AL LG) is on foot, unarmored and carrying only his staff. His 
spells: 

First level: cure light wounds, detect evil 

Almor (AC 10; C 1; hp 5; #AT 1; D 1-6; AL LG) is also on foot, unarmored, and carrying only his staff. 

His spells: 

First level: command, protection from evil 

Durmil (AC 5; MV 9"; C 1; h p 6; #AT 1; D 1-6; AL LG) is wearing chain mail and is armed with a mace. 
He is on foot. His spells: 

First level: detect magic, light, remove fear 

Medium War horse (AC 7; MV 18"; HD 2x2; hp 1 1; #AT 2 hooves, 1 bite; D 1-6/1-6/1-3 

These four clerics have been working with the peasants in the countryside. All are dressed in the yellow 
and blue robes of Jorlon's sect. If treated in a friendly manner, they can give the party the following 
information: 

1. They have been near Waycombe. There is a rumor there that the count's soldiers were attacked and 
either killed or scattered by a band of brigands. 

2. Superstitious stories are circulating among the peasants. There are tales of horrible flying things that 
come in the night and carry people away. Other stories tell of some sinister power in the Great Southern 
Swamp. Worst of all, from the clerics' point of view, there are vague stories of demon worship among 
some of the peasants. 

3. Many of the peasants are becoming terrified as the brigand raids and superstitious stories spread. 
Several 
have already left their lands and possessions to seek safety in the city of Vendare. 

4. The clerics themselves do not believe most of the superstitious tales, but feel that many of them are 
the 
usual types of rumors spread when there is trouble in an area. 

Treasure: Each cleric is carrying 10 gp. Achmar has a scroll of protection from evil, 10' radius. 

PLANNED ENCOUNTERS 

These encounters will occur automatically if and when the party reaches the appropriate area (shown 
on 
their map) on the way to Waycombe. 



1. THE ROBIN'S BREAST INN: As you step inside this roadside inn, you immediately notice that there 
are only 15 customers in a tavern room that supposedly is usually packed with travelers. Most of the 
customers appear to be local farmers or artisans. There are absolutely no merchants. 

The portly, middle-aged innkeeper is standing behind his bar. As you enter, he perks up a bit and calls 
out, 
"Greetings to you, good travelers! What might be your pleasure?" 

As you complete your survey of the room, you can see that there is only one fellow of note: a long, lanky 
man clad in leather jerkin and green, sitting alone in a corner. He is softly plucking on a stringed 
instrument. 

The man with the instrument may look like a bard, but is in fact just a wandering minstrel named Pluck 
(AC 8; MV 12"; NM; hp 4; #AT 1; D 1-4; AL CN). His only weapon is a small dagger. 

The innkeeper is William Brightboy (AGIO; MV 12"; NM; hp 5; #AT 1: D 1-8; AL N). He is not armored, 
but keeps both an old sword and a wooden staff handy behind his bar. He seldom uses either. 

Pluck will approach the party and offer tossing a song or two in exchange for a few pieces of silver. If 
specifically asked about local peasant lore or stories, he will offer to perform "The Ballad of Sakatha." 
This 
will immediately disturb the other customers in the inn, who will make angry comments such as, "Let 
evil 
lie sleeping, you fool!" and "Why invite more trouble? Stick with your silly songs and leave us in peace." 

Pluck will still sing the ballad, despite the customers' displeasure, provided the party can pacify 
Brightboy, 
who will also be very upset (only because his customers are upset). If Pluck sings "The Ballad Of 
Sakatha," the party will hear the following lyric: 

The Ballad of Sakatha 

Sakatha once was the Great Lizard King, 

Said to have power stored in a ring. 

O'er swamplands and plains lands his dominions they spread; 

His very name filled all creatures with dread. 

To build his great tomb in the midst of the marsh, 

Many men died in slavery most harsh. 

His minions took all of our best for his altar; 

Not for a day did his bloody thirst falter. 

Then there arose the great Count ofEor, 

The greatest of heroes in those days of yore; 

He slew Sakatha in the Battle of Waycombe; 

The Lizard Men carried their slaughtered chief home. 

And now he awaits in the cold sleep of death 
His day of awakening, his first newborn breath. 

Though deep in the ground his followers closed him 
He'll come back for vengeance on those who opposed him. 



Following Pluck's performance there will be a long, dead silence in the inn. The minstrel will try to break 
it, saying, "Come now, good people. This is naught but a ballad used to frighten naughty children at 
night. 
Flave you all been naughty children?" 

His attempts at good cheer will fail, and the customers will silently and sullenly begin to file out of the 
inn. 
If stopped or questioned they will say only that they have business to attend to at home. William 
Brightboy 
will be extremely upset, and will need another small tip (a few gold pieces) to stop his whining and 
complaining. 

Treasure: Pluck has 23 gp and 42 sp on his person. Brightboy has a bag of 155 gp tucked away in a small 
locked box beneath the bar. Loose money, totaling 12 gp, is on the tables and in the bar area. 

2. AMBUSH AT THE GREAT BRIDGE: You have come to a. place where the road runs right alongside 
the River Ardo. In the distance, about 300 yards ahead, you can see the bridge where the river curves 
and 
crosses under the road. The banks of the road on the river side are covered with a rich growth of water 
weeds. 

Lurking in the river and the weeds, ready to ambush the party, are 20 Lizard Men (AC 4; MV 6" // 12"; 
HD 
2+1; hp 1 x4, 2x5, 2x8, 5x9, 1x10,3x11, 1x12, 2x14, 1x15, 1x16, 1x17; #AT 3; D 1-2/1-2/1-8; SA Hurl 
javelins for 1-6 before closing to melee). 

These lizard men are the more intelligent variety. They are armed with clubs (treat as morning stars), 
javelins, and normal shields. 

This group has been sent by Sakatha to ambush the party. Remember, Sakatha has scried the Count of 
Eor's palace, and knows that a party will be coming. The lizard men will attack as soon as the party is in 
the center of the bridge. Some will rush from both ends of the bridge at once, while others climb over its 
sides. The bridge itself is made of stone. It is 120 yards across and 30' wide. 

In the course of the melee, the lizard men will attempt to capture any magic users in the party and to 
slay 
the rest of the characters. Prisoners will be taken directly to Sakatha, who will charm, then interrogate, 
and 
finally slay them. 

Should the encounter go against the lizard men, the Dungeon Master should note that they will prefer 
death 
to capture. They will attempt to escape by leaping into the water and swimming away. If any lizard men 
are captured, they will be unable to speak any language but their own. Should communication be 
established, the lizard men will say nothing but "Great King, forgive me," over and over again, as if they 
were in some sort of trance. Under no circumstances will they give any useful information to the party. 

3. THE GREAT SPLIT OAK: About 1 00 yards ahead on the right side of the road you see a large oak 
tree split long ago by lightning. A human figure, apparently asleep, is reclining against the trunk of this 
tree. 

The figure is that of Barto Trume (AC 4; MV 9"; F 5; hp 27; #AT 1; D 1-8; AL N). Tnime is wearing 
battered chain mail and shield, and is carrying his long sword. He is clearly wearing the colors of the 
Count of Eor. 

As the party approaches, Trume will stir from his sleep. When seen from a close distance, he will appear 
haggard, thin, tired, and hungry. 

Trume will seek to identify the party, and will act as though he is greatly relieved if he learns that the 
party 
is working for the Count of Eor. When questioned, Trume will say that his men were attacked by 
brigands, 
and that the entire troop was either scattered, captured or slain. He will tell the party that the attack 
began 
when a little old man approached the head of his column and asked directions. The next thing he knew, 
his 
men were fleeing in panic, brigands were pouring out of the fields nearby, and he was deeply involved in 
a 
battle. Trume himself was taken prisoner along with four others. He alone has managed to escape and 
has 
come this far on foot. 



Trume will tell the party that the brigands' base is in a small copse near a large field behind the inn at 
Waycombe. He will say that he counted 40 brigands in all, plus one man who seemed to be some sort of 
cleric. 

Trume is lying to the party. He has been charmed by Sakatha, and is being sent back to Vendare as an 
agent of the Lizard King. If the charm is broken, Trume will come to himself and tell the party as much of 
the truth as he can remember: 

1. His troop was attacked by a band of brigands. The little old man who stopped them was obviously, 
thinking back on it, a magic user of some sort. 

2. Most of his men were killed or taken prisoner. 

3. Trume was knocked unconscious and taken somewhere deep in the Great Southern Swamp. Some 
terrible evil lurks there, although he cannot remember what it is. 

Trume will insist that his first duty is to return to Vendare and report to the count. (He will insist on this 
whether the charm is broken or not.) He will agree to send back as much aid as possible if the party will 
continue with their mission. The Dungeon Master should note that in no case will this aid arrive in time 
to 
assist the party in the dungeon adventure. If the party waits for such aid, 20 fighters of 0 level, led by 
Trume, will eventually meet them near Waycombe, but they will refuse to venture into the Great 
Southern 
Swamp. 

THE VILLAGE OF WAYCOMBE 

The village of Waycombe lies in a shallow depression on the north side of the main highway. To the 
south, 
the ground slopes sharply down to the edges of the Great Southern Swamp. 

Waycombe has always been known as a prosperous peasant village, but its appearance now tells you 
immediately that this is no longer the case. From the upper edge of the slope you can see some 28 
peasants' huts scattered in clusters on both sides of the road. All but five of these have been burned 
down. 
The fields, which should be filled with crops and farmers tending those crops, contain nothing but 
blackened stubble. 

The only building of note is a large wooden structure facing the main highway. Behind it is a large field, 
and near the field stands a good-sized copse. There are no signs of human inhabitation to be seen from 
the 
distance. 

1. THE COPSE 

The copse is empty, except for the trees and insects that should normally be found there. 

2. THE HUTS 

All but five of the peasant huts have been burned. These obviously have been stripped of all their 
contents. 

3. THE INN 

As you enter this inn, you notice at once that the tavern room has been stripped of furniture. Only a few 
mugs are on the shelves behind the main bar, and only a few bottles of wine are left there. As you are 
looking around, the innkeeper enters from the kitchen area, carrying a large sack and several pieces of 
cloth. He spots you, looks alarmed, and shouts, "What's this? Who are you? What do you want?" 

The innkeeper is a fat, grubby fellow named Busby (AC10; MV 12"; NM; hp 4; #AT 1; D 1-4; AL N) 
whose only weapon is a small dagger. The party has interrupted him late in the act of packing his 
belongings. All that he owns is piled into a wagon in the shed behind the main building. 



If the party is friendly, Busby will offer them the six bottles of wine remaining on his shelves as he packs 
lip the last mugs, wrapping them carefully in the pieces of cloth. He will willingly talk with the party, and 
with much rambling will give them the following information: 

1. The first brigand raids began about three months ago. 

2. The raids have increased in frequency and intensity in the last several weeks. 

3. The brigands have burned most of the village. 

4. The brigands usually strike at night. During their night raids, they have carried off many villagers as 
prisoners: men, women, and children. 

5. Most men flee in panic when the brigands attack. 

6. There have been other strange things going on, about which it is best not to talk. If pressed, Busby will 
admit to seeing a large, strangely-shaped beast flying over the village at night. There have been tales 
among some of the villagers about the lizard men returning to their old lands in the Great Southern 
Swamp. 

7. He is the last inhabitant of the village, and he is leaving as soon as his packing is finished. His family 
and hired hands 


have already left, heading toward the lands in the south where they have relatives. 

8. There is one old man who lives in a hut by the edge of the Great Southern Swamp. This old man will 
not 
leave, but everyone knows that he is hopelessly insane. 

Nothing the party says or does will persuade Busby to stay or to offer the party any further assistance. 

Treasure: Busby's only treasure is in his wagon. It consists of the furniture and dishes for the inn, plus a 
sack of 200 gp. 

4. STEPHEN DEMANIS 


As you approach the tiny hut by the edge of the Great Southern Swamp, you hear a singsong chanting 
coming from inside. You also see smoke rising from a hole in the roof of the hut, a sure sign that there is 
a 
fire inside. 

This is the hut of Stephen DeManis, the old man referred to by Busby as hopelessly insane (AC 10; MV 
12"; NM; hp 4; #AT 1; D 1-4; AL CN). DeManis is unarmored and armed only with a large knife (treat as 
a dagger). 

DeManis is a hermit, but not by choice. He adopted his current lifestyle when the villagers would no 
longer tolerate his eccentric ways. Now, rather than face constant ridicule, he lives alone in this hut, 
venturing out only to fish or hunt. He wears tattered green rags, has wildly flying white hair, and his 
general appearance is offensive. 

As the party approaches, they will hear him chanting a singsong verse: 

"They all thinks I'm crazy, so crazy I am; 

But I'll still be here when they ain't what they am! 

They'll all be taken to Sakatha's lair. 

But me I'll be free as a bird in the air!" 



One day old Stephen ventured a little too far out into the swamp on a hunting/fishing trip, and was 
captured. He was taken to Sakatha, placed under the vampire Lizard King's powerful charm, and used 
for 
a while as a spy in the village area. Now his usefulness to Sakatha has ended, but the charm has never 
been 
broken. 


In addition to everything else, Stephen DeManis really is insane. He constantly says things like "I wonder 
why the snakes in my hair will never comb it?" and "Where have all the pretty buggies gone? There are 
only ugly bugs now. It is pity. ' 


If treated with kindness, Stephen will weave statements about Sakatha into this type of nonsensical, 
mad 
conversation. The player characters will of course never be sure if Stephen knows what he's talking 
about, 
or if there is any truth at all to what he says. The true statements Stephen will make about Sakatha are: 

1. Sakatha the Great Lizard King has returned. 

2. Sakatha is planning to renew his kingdom. 

3. Sakatha is not dead. 

4. Sakatha lives in a great temple in the heart of the swamp. 

If the party expresses interest in Sakatha, Stephen will offer to take them to him on his raft. 

Treasure: Stephen has 25 gp tucked away in a sack. The sack is hidden beneath a loose board in the floor 
of his hut. 

5. SPECIAL ENCOUNTER: THE COPSE AT NIGHT 


It is possible that a party deceived by Barto Trume's story might attempt to stake out the copse behind 
the 
inn. If so, the following encounter will take place the first night of the stakeout. 



As you carefully watch, you see two figures making their way across the meadow in the dark of the 
night. 
They appear to be clad in leather armor, and they are carrying shields and spears. As they reach the 
center 
of the meadow, they stop, turn in your direction, and begin to shout, ''Death to the Count of Eor! Death 
to 
the weakling, stupid, city rats he sends against us!" 

The two figures are two brigands (AC 7; MV 12"; NM; hp 4, 5; #AT 1; D 1-6). They are bait, attempting 
to draw the party out into the meadow. This is part of a trap laid by Sakatha to destroy the party. 


Note that if the party is invisible or otherwise magically hidden, the brigands will not be able to turn and 
look in the party's 


direction. They will, however, stand in the center of the meadow and shout insults, challenging the party 
to 
come out and fight like men. The brigands know that the party is somewhere near because of Sakatha's 
scrying. 

If the party does not seem to move toward the brigands within one turn, the brigands will appear to lose 
interest and move away toward the copse. Nothing more will happen. 

If the party does move into the meadow within one turn (10 minutes), the Dungeon Master should allow 
them to get to the middle of the meadow (the brigands will flee towards the copse). The Dungeon 
Master 
should then tell the party: 

You see a large, dark, winged reptilian shape fly across the full moon and then begin to dive toward you. 

The reptilian shape is the black dragon, Aulicus (AC 3; MV 12"/24"; HD 7; hp 49; #AT 3; D 1-4/1-4/3-18; 
SA breath acid, spell use). His spells, which he casts at 7 th level of ability, are: 


First level: charm person, magic missile, protection from good, dancing lights, comprehend languages, 
jump, affect normal fires 



Aulicus will attack from the air. He will prefer to use his breath weapon and spells, avoiding melee until 
the party is weakened. He is a tough, experienced dragon who will attempt to neutralize the party's 
magic 
users first, then go after the rest. 

Aulicus has been sent by Sakatha to destroy the party. He likes Sakatha, and Sakatha has been providing 
him with a good lair, lots of treasure, and regular easy meals. Thus, Aulicus will not be inclined to parley 
and will consider only the very largest of bribes. 

If at any time it appears that the encounter is going against Aulicus, he will fly away, heading south. He 
will turn to attack any isolated, small groups of characters who are foolish enough to pursue him by 
flying 
or other magical means. 

The two brigands who baited the trap will disappear into the copse. If they are tracked, their trail will 
lead 
to the edge of the Great Southern Swamp near the hut of Stephen DeManis. 

KEY TO THE GREAT SOUTHERN SWAMP 

NOTES FOR THE DUNGEON MASTER 


Maps and Mapping: The Dungeon Master's map of the Great Southern Swamp is for your use only. Your 
players will need a sheet of hex paper to make their own map. The map shows the main streams and 
currents through the swamp; accordingly, players should be instructed to describe their movement to 
you in 
terms of hexes and directions. You will have to tell the players when they reach a junction of major 
currents, which they will do quite frequently. 


Stephen DeManis: A party that has Stephen DeManis along will be at a great advantage. The route 
Stephen 
will follow is marked on your map, and you can guide the players in making their own map accordingly. 
During any type of encounter, Stephen should take no part in combat unless it is necessary to his 
survival. 
He should also be played for all he is worth; make frequent insane statements to the players on his 
behalf. 


Movement Rates: Characters on a raft will be able to move 5 miles per 12 hour period. Characters on 
foot 
will be able to move 2 hexes per day if they maintain a good supply of food and get adequate rest. 

Starting the Party: It will be extremely easy for a party without Stephen DeManis to become hopelessly 
lost 
in the swamp without ever finding the tomb. To assist the party, you should encourage them to begin 
their 
journey into the swamp from the hex containing Stephen's hut, even if he is not going to accompany 
them. 

RANDOM ENCOUNTERS 

The DM should roll for random encounters six times per day: morning, noon, evening, night, midnight, 
and 
pre-dawn. If the party has a planned encounter during the time period in question, no random 
encounter 
will occur. A random encounter is indicated on a roll of 1 on d8. When an encounter is called for, the DM 
may roll again on the following table, or choose from it at will. No encounter should occur more than 
once 
in a two day period. If duplicate encounters are indicated within this time period, roll again. Monsters 
encountered will carry no treasure unless it is designated in the text. 

RANDOM ENCOUNTERS 

Die Roll Encounter 


1 

2 

3 


Giant frog 
Hobgoblins 
Snake (Constrictor) 



4 Giant toad 

5 Giant lizard 

6 Catoblepas 

7 Troll 

8 Ghouls 

1. GIANT FROG 

6 Giant Frogs (AC 7; MV 37/9"; HD 2; hp 3x3, 1x6, 2x8; #AT 1; D 1-6; SA: surprise 1-4, leap 14" to 
attack, tongue strikes at x4 over distance of 12'). 

Six average sized giant frogs will attack the party. Their standard weight is 150 pounds. Note that unless 
the party's water craft is designed to handle extra weight, there is a chance it could capsize if enough 
giant 
frogs leap on board (this is left to the DM's discretion). 

2. HOBGOBLINS 

20 Hobgoblins (AC5; MV 9"; HD 1+1; hp 1x3, 2x4, 5x5, 5x6, 5x7, 2x8; #AT 1; D 1-8 or by weapon type) 
armed with swords and composite bows. Sergeant and two Assistants: same but with 9 hp each. 

This roving patrol will attack a party on a raft or boat with missile weapons. In any event, the hobgoblins 
will attempt to make use of surprise tactics if they can spot the party before the party spots them (70% 
chance if party is waterborne). 


3. GIANT SNAKE (Constrictor) 

1 Constrictor (AC 5; MV 9"; HD 6+1; HP 31; #AT 2; D 1-4/2-8; SA: constricts on first victim hit for 2-8 
points per round) will drop from some overhanging trees to attack the party. 

4. GIANT TOAD 

7 Giant Lizards (AC 5; MV 15"; HD 3+1; hp 13, 2x14, 15, 19, 21, 22; #AT 1; D 1-8; SA: double damage 
on ''to hit" roll of 20) will attack the party 

[Yes, this erroneous text is correct... it's how it appeared in the original module.] 

5. GIANT LIZARD 

7 Giant Lizards (AC 5; MV 15"; HD 3+1; hp 13, 2x14, 15, 19, 21, 22; #AT 1; D 1-8; SA: double damage on 
"to hit" roll of 20) will attack the party 

6. CATOBLEPAS 

1 Catoblepas (AC 7; MV 6"; HD 6+2; hp 27; #AT 1; D 1-6 plus stun; SA: gaze causes death) will be 
encountered. The DM must make careful note of the chances for stunning by the creature's blows, and 
for 
the handling of its gaze attack. 


7. TROLLS 

2 Trolls (AC 4; MV 12", HD 6+6; hp 31, #AT 3; D 5-8/5-8/2-12; SA: may fight 3 opponents at once; SD: 
regenerate 3 hp per melee round, must be burned or immersed in acid to kill, dismembered parts form 
whole in 3-18 rounds) will attack the party. 


8. GHOULS 

17 Ghouls (AC6; MV 9";HD 2; hp 3, 5, 6x9, 12, 14, 15; #AT 3; D 1-3/1-3/1-6; SA: paralyzation by touch; 
SD: immune to sleep and charm spells) will be encountered. 



THE ANCIENT TEMPLE 

The ancient temple of the lizard men is built into the side of a huge mound of muddy earth, which rises 
abruptly out of the swamp. The temple can be approached only by water; the earthen mound that 
forms its 
backdrop is much too treacherous to be climbed. 


The area of swamp around the temple island/mound is so dense that the mound cannot be spotted 
from 
distances of more thanlOO feet. The water around the mound will seem unusually dark and brackish. 


As the party approaches the temple, begin reading the players' description for Encounter Number 1. 


1. THE OUTER SANCTUM 

After more than enough travel through these horrid swamps, you finally see a huge stone platform 
ahead of 
you, rising out of the water in the side of a sheer, muddy mound. On the surface of this platform a few 
marble columns still reach toward the open sky; others have fallen over and broken. 


Three well-worn stone steps ascend from the water itself to the surface of this marble platform. A 
number 
of small skiffs are tied to spikes driven into these steps. 


At the extreme rear of this platform you can see some type of decorated wall. 


If Stephen DeManis is with the party, he will become very excited at this point, and begin to shout, 
''There 
it is! There it is! There's where my good friend Sakatha lives! Maybe he could tame the snakes in my 
hair." 


If the party decides to wait and watch the area for awhile, they will see nothing for as long as they wait 
and 
watch. (Sakatha has been scrying them periodically to keep track of their progress.) As long as the party 
makes no move against the temple, nothing will happen. Stephen DeManis will grow greatly agitated, 
however, will make more and more noise, and constantly will urge the party forward to meet his good 
friend. 



If the party approaches the temple, there is a 1 in 6 chance per party member that they will notice a 
body 
just below the water in the center of the stone stairs. Investigation will reveal a fighter, still in armor but 
with no weapons, wearing the livery of the Count of Eor. The man has been shot in the back with a 
crossbow bolt. 

The party will find nothing else of note in the Outer Sanctum area. They will see that the back "wall" is 
not 
really a wall at all, but a carefully made screen of seashells tied to strings and hung closely together to 
give 
the appearance of a shell wall. 

Behind this "wall" arelO brigand guards (AC 8; MV 12"; FO; hp 2x2, 3x3, 3x4, 2x6; #AT 1; D 1-6) armed 
with light crossbows. They will not normally be seen until they part the curtain walls and open fire at a 
range of 40' (4"). If attacked in melee, they will defend themselves with daggers, doing 1-4 points of 
damage. Each will have 2-8 gp on his person. 


Note that according to the rules for charm spells, this attack by Sakatha's brigands will allow DeManis to 
save vs. Spells. Make this save at -2. If Stephen passes the save, he will go stark raving mad: screaming, 
jumping about, and finally running off into the marsh while babbling all kinds of nonsense syllables. If he 
fails the save, he will react to the attack by laughing hysterically until struck and killed by several 
crossbow 
bolts. (Note: regardless of whether DeManis makes the save, by no means will he accompany the party 
any 
further; he will either run away or be killed). 

2. THE INNER SANCTUM 


Behind the curtain wall, you see another chamber, still open to the sky. At the rear and in the center of 
this 
chamber is a large statue of a powerful, demonic being you have not seen before, crouched and open- 
mouthed (as if unleashing a threatening scream). The statue is not free-standing rather a bas-relief 
carved 
into the rear stone wall of the chamber. 


The walls on each side are decorated with shell mosaics. One shows a great battle between lizard men 
and 
humans, with the men taking the worst of it. The other shows a hideous, huge lizard man with a gem- 
encrusted scepter kneeling before the same demonic figure depicted in the bas-relief. In front of the 
bas- 
relief is a large, smooth stone, about three feet high and eight feet long. It is deeply stained. 


Three pools are in the floor of the room. Each is about 10' across. The pools appear to be covered with a 
scummy green algae. 



There is a secret door that contains the bas-relief. It is quite large: 20'wide. It may be opened by a knock 
spell or by placing any small gem in the open mouth of the demon depicted. The gem will roll through 
and 
be found on the other side of the door when it opens. The door opens inwards from the right. 


Each pool is the home of a water weird (AC 4; HD 3+3; hp2xl4,1x19; #AT 0; D NIL; SA: forms from water 
in 2 rounds, then strikes out up to 10'as 6 HD monster, creatures hit must save vs. Paralyzation or be 
dragged into the water and drowned; SD: sharp weapons cause only 1 point of damage, blunt weapons 
do 
normal damage, cold spells slow the creature, fire-based spells do one-half or no damage, purify water 
spell 
will kill it, reforms in 2 melee rounds when reduced to 0 hit points). The water weirds will begin forming 
in the melee round after Aulicus appears (see below). If Aulicus does not appear, they will begin forming 
when the party has been in the room for five rounds. 


If the characters have already killed the black dragon Aulicus, he will not appear as part of this 
encounter. 

If Aulicus was not killed, he will appear from Area 3 after the party has been in the Inner Sanctum for 
five 
melee rounds. (Note: if the party made no noise at all while dispatching the brigand guards, there is a 
50% 
chance that Aulicus will still be asleep in Area 3 and will not appear in this encounter.) 

Aulicus is a very old average black dragon (AC 3; MV 12724"; HD 7; hp 49; #AT 3; D 1-4/1-4/3-18; SA: 
Breathe acid stream Q"x6" plus spell use). His spells are: 

First level: charm person, magic missile, protection from good, dancing lights, comprehend languages, 
jump, affect normal fires 

Aulicus will throw open the secret door in the panel with the demonic bas-relief and shout, "Who is 
disturbing my guards and my rest?" He will then attack the party. His preferred method of attack will be 
to 
fly above the party, using his breath weapon and spells as opportunity arises. He will attempt to prevent 
the 
party from running out of the Inner sanctum, for he knows the water weirds will be forming, and that 
the 
party will probably be so distracted by his appearance that they will not notice the water weirds. Aulicus 
will save his third breath attack until he is desperate. He will fight to the death, and will neither 
negotiate 
nor give any information. In the unlikely event that he is subdued, he will show the party his treasure, 
but 
lie about everything else in the dungeon (as seems appropriate to the DM). 

When playing Aulicus, the DM should bear in mind that this hardy old beast is almost 400 years old. He 
had a good relationship with Sakatha when he was a young dragon, and in exchange for his guard 
services 
Sakatha keeps him well-fed and shares a good deal of treasure with him. Thus, he is unlikely to betray 
Sakatha as long as he believes he has a chance to return things to the normal state of affairs. 

The secret trap door behind the altar stone can be opened easily once it is found. It reveals a flight of 
stairs 
10' wide, which descends a distance of 30' to Dungeon Level 1. 

Treasure: Beneath the scummy water of the water weird pools, the party may find the following: 

Pool #1: 7 pieces of jewelry: 800 gp gold brooch; 1200gp gold necklace; 1500 gp coral pin; 2800 gp 
platinum bracelet; 3000 gp jade pin; 4500 gp gold pin set with a garnet; 10,000 gp platinum tiara with 
three 
rubies 

Pool #2: 1600 pp 

Pool #3: 1300 pp plus 1 potion of polymorph self 


3. THE LAIR OF AULICUS 



The door swings open to reveal a large cavern in the side of the mound. The chamber is more than 
60'across, and a side passageway leads off to the left about 30' inside. 

This is, of course, the lair of Aulicus, the black dragon described fully in Encounter #2 above. Aulicus will 
be found here only if the party has made no noise at all dispatching the brigand guards and the water 
weirds. If he is in here, there is a 50% chance he will be asleep. If not asleep, he will be just awakening. If 
attacked here, Aulicus will attempt to force the party into the rear of the larger cavern, where he may 
trap 
them and still have an exit should the encounter go against him. 

Treasure: The treasure of Aulicus is piled in a huge mound in location 3A on the DM's map. It includes 
these items: 13,000 cp; 25,000 sp; 1 0 base 10 gp gems; 20 base 50 gp gems; 30 base 100 gp gems; 35 
base 
500 gp gems; 10 base 1,000 gp gems; one potion of dragon control, one potion of fire resistance; a flail 
+1; 
plate mail +1; a sword, +4 defender; scroll of protection from undead. 

KEY TO DUNGEON LEVEL 1: THE BRIGAND'S LAIR 

NOTES FOR THE DUNGEON MASTER 

The noise from the battle with Aulicus, as well as the scrying of Sakatha, will have alerted the brigands 
on 
this level to the party's approach. For the rest of the adventure, Sakatha will do no more scrying; he is 
assuming that his dragon dispatched the party. He did not wait around to see the battle, for he was 
badly in 
need of rest. Before going to sleep for eight hours, he gave orders that normal movement is now 
allowed. 


RANDOM ENCOUNTERS 

The following table is used for random encounters on Dungeon Level 1. Roll ldlO every three game turns 
to check for an encounter. An encounter is indicated on a roll of 1 or 2. Roll ldlO a second time and 
consult 
the table to obtain the exact encounter. The DM may use his discretion to choose an encounter rather 
than 
use the encounter rolled. No encounter should be used more than once; if the same encounter is rolled 
twice, roll again. 


RANDOM ENCOUNTERS FOR LEVEL 1 


Die Roll Encounter 


1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 


Lizard Men 

Brigands 

Clerics 

Trolls 

Wolves 

Bats 

Wights 

Type I Demon 

Jackalweres 

Bugbears 


1. LIZARD MEN 

5 Lizard men (AC 5; MV 67/12"; HD 22; hp 10, 12, 13, 14, 15; #AT 3; D 1 -2/1-2/1-8). 


These lizard men are from the tomb level below. They are simply on their way outside for some random 
pleasures. They will attack on sight, and attempt to raise an alarm. 



2. BRIGANDS 


10 Brigands (AC 7; MV 12"; F 0; hp 3x1, 1x3,1x4, 2x5, 3x6; #AT 1; D 1-8) wearing leather armor and 
shield and carrying swords. The brigands have been on an errand in the dungeon complex. They will 
attempt to flee an obviously powerful party and raise an alarm. 


3. CLERICS 

Six clerics will be spotted by the party. They appear as men dressed in black robes with silver trim. 
Beneath these ceremonial robes all are clearly wearing chain mail or other armor as noted. If any cleric 
of 
alignment other than chaotic evil is with the party and not in disguise, the clerics will attack, 


making as much noise as possible in an attempt to raise an alarm. The clerics have been below to confer 
with Mordrin about religious matters. 

Avril (AC 2; MV 6";C6 hp 32; #AT 1; D 2-5+2) is in plate mail and carries a hammer +2. He also 
possesses a ring of fire resistance and a scroll of protection from magic. His spells: 

First level: command x2, cure light wounds x2, cause fear 
Second level: silence 15' radius, hold person, slow poison 
Third level: cause blindness, curse 

Balthor (AC 2; MV 6"; C 5; hp 27; #AT 1; D 2-7+1) is wearing Plate mail +1 and carrying a mace+1. He 
is wearing a ring of warmth. His spells: 

First level: command x2, cause fear x2 
Second level: chant, detect charm, snake charm 
Third level: dispel magic 

Cruth (AC 5; MV 9"; C 5; hp 24; #AT 1; D 2-7+2) is wearing normal chain mail and carrying a mace +2. 
He has a 10% chance for spell failure. His spells: 

First level: bless, command, purify food and drink 
Second level: resist fire, silence 15' radius, speak with 
animals 

Third level: animate dead 

Dolmore (AC 5; MV 9"; C 4; hp 13; #AT 1; D 2-7) is in normal chain mail, He has a scroll of protection 
from lycanthropes. He has a 10% chance for spell failure. His spells: 

First level: protection from good, remove fear, sanctuary 
Second level: chant, silence 15' radius 

Effrin (AC5; MV9"; C4; hp 26; #AT 1; D 1-6) is in chain mail and carries a staff of striking with 51 charges 
left (+3 to hit, D d6 +3 additional points per charge of the staff expended). He has a 5% chance of spell 
failure. His spells: 

First level: cure light wounds, detect magic, sanctuary 
Second level: chant, hold person 

Foral (AC 5; MV9"; C3; hp 16; #AT 1; D 2-7) is in chain mail and 
carries a mace, He has a 5% chance of spell failure. His spells: 



First level: create water, resist cold 
Second level: hold person 

Each of the clerics will have 1 d 10 x 10 gp. 


4. TROLLS 

3 Trolls (AC 4; MV 12"; HD 6+6; hp 28, 35, 38; #AT 3; D 5-8/5-8/2-12; SA: may attack up to 3 opponents 
per round; SD: regenerate 3 hp/round beginning on third round, must be burned or dipped in acid to be 
destroyed, dismembered parts form new whole in 3-18 rounds). 

These three fellows have been doing a little business with the new power in the neighborhood. They will 
attack the party on sight. 

5. WOLVES 

8 Wolves (AC 7; MV 18"-, HD 2+2; hp 2x2; hp2x5, 1 x9, 1 x9, 1 xlO, 2x13, 1 xl4. 1 xl5; #AT 1; D 2-5). 

These wolves are simply a few of the many that are allowed to wander freely through the dungeon at 
the 
behest of Sakatha. They are accustomed to being fed by the visitors to the area and by their master. 
They 
will not attack unless mistreated or attacked first. 


6. BATS 

45 Bats (AC 4; MV 24"; HD 1-2 hp; #AT 1 bite; D 1) 

The bats, like the wolves, are kept around by Sakatha for reasons obvious to the DM: clever players will 
probably make the connection between the presence of bats and the possible presence of vampires. 
These 
bats will not attack unless trapped. 



7. WIGHTS 


4 Wights (AC 5; MV 12"; HD 43; hp 18,18,20,22; #AT 1; D 1-4; SA: drain one level; SD: silver or magic 
weapons to hit, immune to sleep, charm, hold, or cold-based spells, poison and paralyzation). 

The wights will be headed toward the tomb level below. They are constrained by Sakatha from attacking 
most visitors, but 


will recognize the party for what they are and attack. If the encounter seems to be going against the 
wights, 
or if they are turned, they will go to the island on the tomb level and prepare to defend it. 


8. DEMON (TYPE 1) 

1 Type I Demon (AC 0; MV 12718"; HD 8; hp 29; #AT 5; D 1-4/1-4/1-8/1-8/1-6; SA: cause darkness in 5' 
radius, may detect invisible object, telekinese 2,000 gp weight or gate in another type I Demon at will 
with 
10% chance of success; MR: 50%). 

This foul creature is already in a nasty mood, as he was ordered by a cleric to carry a few spells up to this 
plane. The party will provide an excellent opportunity for him to work out his frustrations. He will not 
use 
his gate ability unless totally desperate. This demon's name is Grzzlat. 


9. JACKALWERES 

4 Jackalweres (AC 4; MV 12"; HD 4; hp 8,17,22, 23; #AT 1; D 2-8; SA: gaze causes sleep as spell if save 
is failed; SD: iron or +1 weapons to hit). 



These beasts have come to pay their respects to Sakatha. They will be in human form when 
encountered, 
dressed as normal fighting men. They will not attack the party at first sight, but will follow from a safe 
distance, seeking an opportune moment to assume their true form and strike. 


10. BUGBEARS. 

6 Bugbears (AC 5; MV 9"; HD 3+1; hp 20,21, 23,24,25; #AT 1; D 2-8 SA: surprise on a 1-3). 

These bugbears, like the jackalweres, are paying respects on behalf of the nearest band. They have no 
loyalty to Sakatha, however, and if communication can be established before they attack, they can be 
bought off for ldlOxlOO gp or the equivalent value in gems. Each bugbear has 3-24 cp and 3-18 sp on his 
person. 

ENCOUNTER KEY FOR LEVEL ONE 

1. GUARD ROOM 

The door at the base of the long stairs opens easily. Beyond it you see a small room containing a 
wooden 
table, two chairs, and a bottle of wine. 

This guard room is usually manned by two brigands. At the moment, however, it is empty, since the 
guards 
have gone to Room 2 to be part of the force preparing to surprise the party. 

2. GREAT HALL OF THE BRIGANDS 

As you open the unlocked door to this chamber, you find yourself peering into total darkness. Suddenly, 
the darkness is pierced by a brilliant light, and you hear the twang of many bowstrings! 

The brigands, who heard the encounter above with old Aulicus and guessed its outcome, have prepared 
a 
reception party for the PCs. The great hall is an enormous ambush. 

The brilliant light is a light spell cast by the 7 th level magic user Gormundel, who is assisting the 
brigands. 
As soon as the party opens any door to the great hall, Gormundel will throw his light spell directly in the 
doorway, attempting to center it on the eyes of the first party member who peers in. The brigand 
bowmen 
will open fire, and then the polearm men will be sent in to charge. 

Once the melee begins, Gormundel will assist as he can with his spells, and will use his wand of fear if it 
appears that the encounter is going against the brigands. If the players are clearly winning despite his 
best 
efforts, Gormundel will be among the first to flee. He will try to return to his quarters, where he might 
hide 
or, as is more likely, defend himself more effectively. If this retreat is impossible, he will flee to the 
surface. Fleeing brigands, however, will be completely demoralized, and will immediately attempt to 
escape outside. 

The composition of the brigand force is: 

5 heavy swordsmen (AC 4; MV9"; F0; hp 3x5, 2x6; #AT 1; D 1-8) with chain mail and shields; 

5 polearm men (AC 8; MV 12"; F0; hp 1x3,3x5,1x6; #AT 1; D 1-10) in leather armor; 

5 spearmen (AC 8; MV12"; F0; hp lxl, 1x5, 3x6; #AT 1; D 1-6) in leather armor; 

5 bowmen (AC 8; MV 12"; F0; hp 1x2, 2x3,1x4,1x5; #AT 1; D 1-6) in leather armor with 20 arrows each; 
Heavy swordsman leader (AC 4; MV 9"; F3; hp 20; #AT 1; D 1-8) in chain mail with long sword; 


Polearm leader (AC 5; MV 9"; F 3; hp 17; #AT 1; D 1-10) in chain mail with halberd and dagger (D 1-4); 



Spearmen leader (AC 4; MV 9"; F 4; hp 29; #AT 1; D 1-8+1) wearing chain mail and shield, fighting with 
a sword +1 (long sword) and also carrying a mace+1. This fighter also has on him boots of levitation and 
a 
potion of flying. 

Bowmen leader (AC 4; MV 12"; F5; hp 44; #AT 1; D 1-6) wearing leather armor, shield, and a cloak of 
protection +3 that adds 3 to the AC and to saving throws. Fie is armed with a long sword and dagger (D 
1- 
4). 

Lieutenant (AC 0; MV 12"; F7; #AT 3/2 rounds; D 1-8+3) wearing plate mail +2 and shield, carrying a 
ring of invisibility that he will use if needed, and armed with a sword +3 frost brand, 6 vs. fire 
using/dwelling creatures. 

Gormundel (AC 8; MV 12" MU7; hp 17; #AT 1; D 1-4 AL CE) is wearing a cloak of protection +2 and a 
ring of swimming. He carries a wand of fear with 5 charges left in it. He is also carrying a scroll of 
protection from magic that he will use only if he absolutely must. Spells: 

First level: detect magic, erase, identify, spider climb 
Second level: continual light, stinking cloud, shatter 
Third level: blink, flame arrow 
Fourth level: fire shield 

Fighting brigands will use any magical items they possess to their best advantage. Fleeing brigands will 
use magical items/spells to aid their escape. 

Inspection of the area after the melee will reveal a very large room with several tables and chairs that 
have 
been pushed aside to make room for the ambushing brigand force. There is no treasure in the room. 
Any 
treasure owned by the brigands has been stashed in chests in the appropriate barracks or room. 

3. STORAGE ROOM 

This room is merely a small storage room. It contains some worthless miscellaneous items such as cheap 
candle sticks, four dozen candles, and a big ball of string. 

4. KITCHEN 

This area is the brigands' kitchen. There are several tables, pots, pans, a fireplace (the vent of which is 
too 
small to climb), and miscellaneous kitchen and food service utensils. A small unlocked door leads to 
Room 
4A, and a similar door to the stairs to Room 4B. 

4A. PANTRY 

This pantry contains enough food to supply the party for the duration of the adventure. There are good 
stocks of smoked fish, hams, and a variety of greens. 

4B. WINE CELLAR 

This large wine cellar contains 12 barrels of good wine and one barrel of potable water. 

5. ARMORY 

Several empty weapon racks line the walls of this room. The only weapons here are six light crossbows, 
six sets of twelve crossbow bolts, and six maces. None of the weapons are magical. 

6. BARRACKS 

You see a large number of cots with cheap mattresses scattered about the room. Beneath each of the 
cots is 
a small wooden chest. 



There are 25 cots in this room, the barracks for half of the brigand regular force. Each small chest 
contains 
some old 


clothes, some odds and ends of leather armor, and2-8gp. The fifth and 17 th chests examined will also 
contain 2 base 50 gp gems. There is a 1 in 6 chance that any chest examined is trapped with poison 
needles 
(2) that shoot (10'range) from the front of the chest when it is opened (Save vs. Poison or die). All the 
chests are locked. 


7. BARRACKS 

As you peer into this room, you quickly notice that there are a few brigands sleeping on some of the 
many 
cots that are scattered about. 

Asleep in this barracks are 10 brigands (AC1 0; MV 12"; F0; hp 3x1, 3x2,1x3,1x4, 2x5; #AT 1; D 1-8). 
Each keeps his sword and shield near his cot. The brigands are not in their leather armor but may have 
time to grab their shields when they awaken (60% chance for each brigand). Otherwise, this room is 
identical to 6 above. 


8. GORMUNDEL'S CHAMBER DOOR 

As you proceed down the corridor, you see that there is an 8' high bas-relief carving of a demon on the 
side 
of the corridor wall. 

This bas-relief is the sign of a secret door. This door opens in exactly the same manner as the door to 
Aulicus' lair in the temple complex above. 


8A. GORMUNDEL'S CHAMBER 

You see a finely furnished chamber with thick fur carpeting, a brass bed, a good wooden desk and chair, 
a 
washstand, writing equipment, and various knickknacks. There is a door in the wall to your left. 

These are Gormundel's quarters. A search of the desk will reveal that one drawer is locked. It can be 
opened with a knock spell, or by saying the word of command, "Open." The desk could, of course, be 
smashed to get at the contents of the drawer. In this drawer are several sheets of parchment with 
writing on 
them. Most contain notes on spell research that indicate old Gormundel has been researching some 
type of 
spell for affecting undead, but without success thus far. One sheet of parchment contains the following 
verse: 


Past the doors you cannot find, 

Down the steps you cannot climb, 

And across the River of Nothingness 
You 'll find your way. 

Beware the marksman and his prey. 

Shun the royal brides! 

Then find the place I lie in eternal feast! 

Past glories I despise; 

The light of vengeance fills my eye. 

Treasure I give my servant dragon, 

Guardian loyal of this, my reborn feeding lair. 



The brass bed is worth 2,000 gp. On the desk are two gold candlesticks worth 100 gp each. No other 
treasure is in the room except the furniture itself. The desk would fetch 150 gp on the open market. The 
carpet is worth 300 gp. 


9. GORMUNDEL'S STUDY 

The room you see has long, low work benches along the right and left walls. These benches contain such 
items as bottles and vials, a lamp and a burner, weights, and other alchemical equipment. Across from 
you, 
there is a reading stand in the right-hand corner of the room. 

This is Gormundel's study and laboratory. There is little of value here, except for one vial of powdered 
diamonds worth 350 gp.The vial can be found in one turn of searching. There is a secret door behind the 
reading stand. If the door is found, it cannot be opened except with a knock spell or by throwing a bit of 
the powdered diamonds directly at it. The reading stand is empty. 

10. GORMUNDEL'S TREASURE ROOM 

As the door opens, you see that you are peering into total blackness. 

The blackness is caused by the continual darkness spell Gormundel has placed here. Careful inspection 
of 
the room will show that it is apparently completely empty. There is, however, an invisible chest against 
the 
back wall of the room, which may be found by careful searching. The chest is locked. Inside is a bag 
containing 500 gp, a second bag containing 500 pp, a mass of loose silver totaling 3500 sp, and a book. 

The book is Gormundel's spell book. It is finely bound in leather, and has a clasp lock. The magic runes 
on the front of it and on its opening page are explosive runes (explode when read for 6d4+6 points of 
damage, 1 " radius, no save for reader, others take Q damage if save, detection chance 5% per level of 
magic user, 5% only for thieves). The book contains the following spells: 

First level: read magic, detect magic, erase, identify, spider climb, dancing lights, mending, jump, 
burning 
hands 

Second level: continual light, stinking cloud, shatter, magic mouth, levitate, invisibility, Leomund's trap, 
detect invisibility, wizard lock 

Third level: blink, flame arrow, haste, monster summoning 1, fly, explosive runes, protection from evil 
10' 
radius 

Fourth level: fire trap, charm monster, polymorph other, fire shield, confusion, enchanted weapon, fire 
charm 

Note to the DM: If Gormundel has been chased away from the battle with the party that took place in 
Room 
2 above, he will be found here. Using the cover of continual darkness, he will defend himself with all of 
his remaining spells in a desperate last stand. 

The DM should also note that spells cannot be cast by being 
read from the spell caster's book! 

11. GUARDS'QUARTERS 

Immediately upon opening the door, you see seven men in armor seated at a large table in the middle of 
the 
room. They have been drinking, as is shown by several wine bottles and mugs on the table, and you 
have 
apparently interrupted a dice game. 

A party that listens at the door before going into this room will hear occasional guffaws and shouts of 
"Come on, baby!" and "Har! You lose!" 



The men are the captain of the brigand band and his six bodyguards. The captain had entrusted the 
handling of a minor party of intruders to his lieutenant, not wanting to interrupt his own gambling and 
drinking. The seven men will, of course, attack the party on sight. 

Captain (AC 2; MV 12"; F8; hp 47; #AT 3/2 rounds; D 2-7+2) is wearing chain mail +3 and armed with a 
trident of warning that is treated as a +2 weapon. 

6 Guards (AC 5; MV 9"; F2; hp 6, 8, 10, 14, 16, 17; #AT 1; D 1-8 plus magic weapon bonuses) are 
wearing chain mail. All have long swords; three of these weapons are swords +1. 

The other items in this room include six locked chests, each containing miscellaneous gear and 100 gp, 
six 
cots, and 200gp in loose coins. 

The secret door from here to Room 15 can be opened by a small latch hidden behind an ornamental wall 
hanging. 

12. LEADER'S QUARTERS 

These are the quarters of two of the leaders of the group in Room 2. These quarters are nice but 
unremarkable. There are two large locked chests here, each containing 500 gp. 

13. LEADER'S QUARTERS 
This room is identical to Room 12. 

14. LIEUTENANT'S QUARTERS 

This sparsely furnished room belongs to the lieutenant of the brigand band. Aside from the usual 
furnishings, there is nothing to be seen. 

A careful search of the room, however, will reveal a secret hiding place at point A behind a loose stone 
in 
the wall. Inside this cavity is a large chest. The chest is locked, and trapped cleverly with poisoned 
needles 
that fly out in all four directions, two from each side of the chest (Save vs. Poison or die). Inside are 
6,000 
sp, 4,000 gp, 200 pp, and six items of gold jewelry worth 500 gp apiece. 

15. CAPTAIN'S QUARTERS 

This room is ornately furnished, but with the types of items that actually have little value. The overall 
appearance is rather tacky. The room is carpeted and contains a desk, bed, several chairs, and several 
wall 
paintings (mainly of battle scenes between men). There is a sword in a scabbard hanging over the bed. 

The sword is a cursed berserking bastard sword. The secret trap door in this room can be found by 
careful 
searching beneath the carpeting. It opens onto a rope ladder that descends 20 feet to a narrow (5' wide) 
corridor. At the end of the corridor is a ladder up to the trap door in 16. 

16. THE BRIGANDS'TREASURE ROOM 

As the first member of your party peers up to the floor of the room above, he sees a few glints of metal 
coming from a huge pile in the middle of the room. Another dark mound appears to begin moving slowly 
toward him. 

The trap door to this room is locked. Once the party overcomes the lock, they will find the room above 
completely dark, and the 

air filled with a horrid staleness and a mild stench. A light shining into the room, or infravision, will 
reveal 
what the DM should describe as two large mounds: one of treasure, and one that looks like a heap of 
rotting 
vegetation. This second mound is a shambling mound (AC 0; MV 6"; HD 9; hp 37; #AT 2; D 2-16/2-16; 



SA: creature hit twice in the same round is entangled and suffocated in 2-8 rounds unless the shambling 
mound is killed; SD: fire does not effect, lightning attacks add 1 hit die, cold does Q or no damage, 
weapons score Q normal damage, crushing has small effect). This creature has been sent to guard the 
brigands' treasure. It will not leave the treasure room, but will attack anyone who enters. 

Treasure: The treasure is lying in open heaps on the floor of the room. It consists of 3,000 cp, 4,000 gp, 
4,000 pp, 19 items of jewelry (5 x base 300 gp gold, 5 x base 1,000 gp silver with gems, 5 x 1,500 gp jade, 
4 x 10,000 gp platinum with gems), a potion of speed, and a scroll with one spell (web: written at 7 th 
level 
of ability). 

17. EMPTY ROOM 

This room appears to be completely empty, except for a few chairs scattered about. 

18. WORSHIP AREA 

As you round a turn in the corridor, you see ahead what is clearly some type of worship area. In the 
center 
of this area is a large, free-standing marble statue of the same demonic type you have already seen. 
Behind 
the statue is a darkly stained altar stone. On each side of the statue there are small, 5' diameter pools. 
Behind the altar is a tapestry depicting a demon tormenting a human captive. There are doors leading 
out 
of this area to the right and to the left. 

This area is reserved for worship by the brigands and by the demon-worshiping clerics who are in league 
with them and with Sakatha. The pools are filled with unholy water. Close examination of the altar will 
reveal that the bloodstains are fresh. The entire area radiates evil. 

19. EMPTY ROOM 

20. CLERICAL PREPARATION ROOM 

In the center of this room is a large round table. A stick of incense in a burner is on the center of the 
table. 
Around the room are a set of pegs driven into the walls. Silver-trimmed black robes hang from seven of 
these pegs. A large basin of water is beside the door to Room 19. 

This is the room used by the demonic clerics for meditation, preparation for ceremonies, etc. The robes 
are 
normal robes; the room, however, will radiate evil. 

21. CLERICAL STUDY 

You see what appears to be a small library. There are about 100 books scattered about on shelves 
around 
the walls, and two or three books lying on a large table in the center of the room. There is a reading 
stand 
against the back wall of the room, upon which a large tome lies open. 

Examination of the books in this room will reveal that they are standard sorts of works that would be of 
general interest to clerics of chaotic evil alignment. The book on the reading stand, however, is a Book of 
Vile Darkness (see Dungeon Master's Guide, p. 139). It is chained to the reading stand. 

22. CLERIC'S CELL 

A man in a silver-trimmed black robe is seated at a desk in this small room. He is reading quietly, and 
looks up at you as soon as the door opens. 

This man is a 3 rd level cleric especially chosen by Mordrin for the great work beginning in this area. The 
man is totally loyal to his faith - in fact, fanatical. He will die rather than reveal useful information to the 
party. If possible, he will raise an alarm, which will bring the clerics from 24 and 25 to his aid. This 



particular cleric's name is Almar (AC 10; MV 12"; C 3; hp 21; #AT 1; D 2-7) and he will grab for his mace 
to use in self defense, if necessary. His spells: 

First level: cure light wounds, detect good, protection from good, sanctuary 
Second level: augury, find traps, hold person 

Almar will make every effort to alert his fellow clerics in Rooms 23-28 of the presence of the intruding 
party. 

Almar has no treasure: all his worldly goods have been devoted to the religious work he enjoys so much. 
23-26. CLERICS'CELLS 

These cells are identical to Room 22 except for their clerics. All have the same basic statistics (AC 10; MV 
12"; C 3; #AT 1; D 2-7). Specific hit points and spells usable are listed by room. 

23. 11 hp. Spells: 

First level: detect magic, light, sanctuary 
Second level: know alignment, slow poison 

24. 15 hp. Spells: 

First level: bless, create water, light, resist cold, sanctuary Second level: detect charm, find traps, resist 
fire, 
silence 15' radius 

25. 11 hp. Spells: 

First level: cure light wounds (x2), command (x2) 

Second level: hold person, resist fire 

26. 15 hp. Spells: 

First level: command, cure light wounds, cause fear 
Second level: silence 15' radius, chant 

Any of these clerics aware of the party's presence will attempt to alert the others and the higher level 
cleric 
in Room 28. Any loud noise in the corridor will immediately alert them all (except the cleric in Room 28, 
who will be alerted only when someone enters Room 28A and shouts, or enters Room 28B). 

27. SECRET DOOR TO ROOM 28 

This wall is covered by a painting of the demon worshiped by the clerics. The door can be opened with a 
knock spell or when it is sprinkled with unholy water. 

28. CHAMBER OF THE PATRIARCH 

A. Vestibule: This finely carpeted little room contains a long 
wooden bench and a basin of unholy water. 

B. Main Chamber: 

As you peer into this chamber, you see a man in plate mail armor kneeling in prayer in front of a small 
shrine. The opening of the door has alerted him to your presence, and he rises quickly, turns, and faces 
you. 

The man is the Patriarch Ul-Lon (AC 2; MV9"; C8; hp 36; #AT 1; D 2-4; AL CE). His is wearing plate 
mail +1 and is armed with a staff of the serpent, adder variety (strikes as a +1 weapon for 2-4 points, 
head 
becomes actual serpent's head with AC 5 and 20 hp; all hit by the staff must save vs. Poison or die). His 
spells: 


First level: curse, create water, cure light wounds (x2) 



Second level: hold person, speed poison, silence 15' radius 
Third level: cause disease, animate dead, prayer 
Fourth level: poison, undetectable lie 

Ul-Lon will quickly move against any intruders with a fierce and fanatical wrath. Fie is especially fond of 
causing death by poisoning, and can seldom pass up the opportunity to do so. 

Flis chamber is richly furnished with fine carpeting (worth 800 gp) and several fine items, such as a pair 
of 
silver candelabra worth 600 gp. The walls are hung with black curtains all around, except in front of the 
small shrine built into the back wall. This shrine houses the candelabra and a small, black statue of the 
cleric's demon-god. The statue is worth 2,500 gp because of its workmanship, but any person touching 
and 
carrying it is 1% likely cumulative per day to attract the attention of a Demon, Type I-VI (roll 1 d6 to 
determine type). The secret door behind the curtain in the slanting wall is opened by lifting up the 
statue, 
or by a knock spell. 

29. TEMPLE TREASURY 

In contrast to the luxury of the room you are standing in, this is a small, musty room of bare stone, 
covered 
with cobwebs except in its very center. Three chests - one large and two very small -- are in the center of 
the room. 

All three chests are locked and covered with contact poison (save vs. Poison or die. Saving throws are 
made at +1. There is a 1 5% chance that a character carefully inspecting the chests will notice the poison 
before touching it). 

The large chest contains 5,000 gp and 2,000 pp. The small 

Chests each contain a small cylindrical ivory case with an ivory "stopper" in one end. Each of these cases 
is worth 500 gp. Inside the first case opened is a cursed scroll that will drain completely all magic items 
in 
the possession of the reader. The second case contains a scroll of protection from demons. 

30. TRAP ROOM 

This appears to be just another empty room. There are doors on the two walls to your right and left. 

The room is empty, but the door at A is actually a mimic of the killer variety (AC 7; MV 3"; HD 10; hp 45; 
#AT 1; D 3-12; SA: glue holds fast to anything that touches it; SD: camouflage). 

The other door is a false door. It can be hacked away in one turn. 

Once it is located, the secret door at B can easily be swung open. 

31. TRAP ROOM 

This room is identical in all respects to Room 30. If, however, the party was attacked by the mimic in 30, 
there will be no mimic in 31, and vice-versa; the party should face only one mimic in this area of the 
dungeon. 

32. EXIT TO TOMB LEVEL 


You see nothing in this area but a corridor 30' long. 


Actually, there is a secret trap door in the floor of this room. Once found, the trap door can easily be 
opened, and will reveal a set of stone stairs leading to the tomb level. The stairs descend at a modest 
angle, 
and at their bottom the party will barely be able to see some type of stone floor (in order to see this, 
someone must shine a light down the stairway). 



The stairs are trapped, and when the first character steps on the fifth stair, will recede with an 
enormous 
noise and become a very steep inclined plane. Any character on the stairs at this time should be allowed 
a 
saving throw based on 3% per point of dexterity. Those who make the save will be clinging to the 
smooth 
rock of the inclined plane, and will have to find some way to get back up. Those who fail will plummet 
30' 
down into the flaming pit that has suddenly appeared at the foot of what was once the stairway. The pit 
is 
60' deep, and characters can easily climb out of it, but those without some form of magical fire 
resistance 
or other magical protections (such as a feather fall) will be killed immediately. 


KEY TO THE TOMB LEVELS 
NOTES FOR THE DUNGEON MASTER 

The trapped stairway and the pit of fire mark the transition from the dungeon level to the tomb level 
proper. 
The tomb level is 

extremely hazardous. Running it properly requires a good deal of careful study and thought by the DM 
before play begins! 

If players have been particularly weakened by the hazards of the upper level, they will have little chance 
of 
surviving the tomb level. Fortunately for the party, there are several areas on the isle of the Tomb where 
they can rest, recuperate, and even regenerate spells is in relative security. Such areas are marked R# 
(Rl, 
R2, etc.) on the DM's map of the first tomb level. 

There are no random encounters in this level of the adventure. Characters who attempt to disbelieve in 
the 
raft should be allowed a save vs. Spells at +2. Those who save will no longer see the raft, but will still see 
the river. 

1. THE SHORE OF THE RIVER OF NOTHINGNESS 

Having descended safely to the lower level, you find yourselves in a huge single cavern room that 
extends 
far beyond your vision in all directions except behind you. Ahead of you, 20 to 30 feet away, flows a 
river. 
It appears to be quite wide: you cannot see the opposite shore. 

Exploring the river bank will reveal that the river indeed runs to either end of the cavern room, and then 
goes underground as the high ceiling (90' at its highest points) curves down to seal off the room. A party 
exploring the near side of the river will also find two snug little caverns going about 20 feet into the hilly, 
stony terrain on which they are walking. These caverns are located at Rl and R2. A party that camps in 
either of these caverns can rest for up to two days without being in any way disturbed. After that time, a 
wight or two from Area 3 will become curious. 

When the party has been on the river bank for two turns, a raft will suddenly and mysteriously appear 
on 
the bank at the location marked A on the DM's map. A detect magic spell will show a magic aura coming 
from both the raft and the river. The raft will appear big enough to carry the entire party across the 
river. 
See 2 below. 

2. THE RIVER OF NOTHINGNESS 

This river is aptly named, for it does not exist! Both the raft and the river are complicated magic 
illusions, 
cast some 250 years ago as part of the security for the Lizard King's tomb. For purposes of dispel magic 
spells, assume that the spell caster was 18 th level. 

Characters who attempt to disbelieve in the raft should be allowed a save vs. Spells at +2. Those who 
save 
will no longer see the raft, but will still see the river. 



Characters who attempt to disbelieve the river should be allowed a save vs. Spells. Those who save will 
see that what appeared to be a river is in fact nothing but a huge, dry ditch, 20' deep and 60' across. 

Characters who attempt to disbelieve the dry ditch should also be allowed to save vs. Spells. Those who 
save will be able to see acid vats hidden in the location shown on the map, where illusory dry river bed 
hides them from the sight of those who fail to save. 

Characters who step into any area marked with an acid vat will fall into the vat, no saving throw allowed. 
Such characters will take 4-16 points of damage per round until extricated from the vat. Each vat 
islO'deep 
and filled with acid to a depth of 8 feet. 

Note that when a character falls into an acid vat, the illusion of dry river bed over that particular vat is 
broken for the entire party. The illusion will still cover the other vats, however, until characters attempt 
to 
disbelieve and make saving throws as described above. 

3. BURIAL MOUNDS OF THE LIZARD KING'S SLAVES 

As you approach the far side of the river bed, you see a large number of earthen mounds on the far side. 

No sound comes from the area. 

The mounds are burial mounds for slaves of the Lizard King Sakatha. The slaves were killed and buried 
here when Sakatha was laid to rest, in the hope that they would help him in his afterlife. The mounds 
themselves are quite harmless, but this area is also the lair of 16 wights (AC 5; MV 12"; HD 43; hp 4x17, 
4x19, 4x21, 2x25,1x27,1x29; #AT 1; D 1-4; SA: Hit drains one experience level; SD: immune to sleep, 
charm, hold, cold-based spells, poison and paralyzation, holy water does 2-8 points of damage per vial, 
raise dead spell will destroy). 

The wights will attack the party at the earliest opportunity. Any wights turned by a cleric will flee to a 
location out of sight behind the tomb building (see below) but will return as soon as the effects of 
turning 
wear off. 

Treasure: The wights' treasure is hidden in the burial mound marked "C" on the DM's map. This mound 
will appear to be more recently disturbed than the others. The treasure can be found by digging for 
three 
frill turns. In addition to the skeleton of a human being, the digging party will find 4,000 ep, 1,000 gp, 
and 
4 base 100 gp gems. 

4. THE CAMP OF THE LIZARD MEN 

In the distance, among the rocks and hills, you can see a number of campfires burning. You can vaguely 
make out tall humanoid shapes moving (and apparently eating) around the fires. 

These are the campfires of lizard men who were drawn to the area by the news of the return of the 
great 
Lizard King. They are laired here, awaiting orders. Already some have been formed into raiding parties to 
follow in the wake of the destruction caused by the brigands. 

As long as the party does not come nearer than 90' to any of their campfires, the lizard men will take no 
notice of them. They will ignore any sounds of struggle with the wights, whom they detest anyway. 
Basically, the lizard men are totally convinced that no harm can possibly come to them this far down in 
the 
dungeons of the great Sakatha; they will assume that anyone down here is going about the business of 
the 
Lizard King. If the party comes within close viewing, the lizard men will see them for what they are and 
mount an attack. 

There arelO lizard men (AC; MV67/12"; HD 2+1; hp 1x8, 2x9,1x10, 2x11,1x12, 2x13,1x15; #AT 3: D 1-2/1- 
2/1-8) around each fire. If they do attack, the group nearest the party will attack first. The second 
nearest 
group will have prepared themselves to attack 2 melee rounds later, with succeeding groups following 
at a 
rate of one group per melee round. Only a powerful party has much chance of withstanding this 
onslaught. 



The DM must be particularly careful to apply the morale rules as explained on page 67 of the Dungeon 
Master's Guide to the lizard men during any melee with the party. For purposes of applying these rules, 
the 
lizard men have a base morale score of 56%, 

Treasure: A careful search of all the campfires will result in the finding of a total of 5,000 gp in small 
sacks, plus five items of jewelry (1 base 500 gp, 1 base 800 gp, 1 base 1,400 gp, 1 base 3,000 gp, and 1 
base 6,000 gp). The party will also find a fine mahogany box with a small latch. The box is locked, Inside 
is a base 10,000 gp crown made of platinum and inset with gems, intended as a gift to Sakatha from 
some 
of the lizard men. 

5. THE DOORS OF THE TOMB 

The walls of a large building loom before you, standing 20' high. In the center of the wall facing the river, 
you see two 5' wide, 12' tall doors. The doors are at least bronze-plated, if not solid bronze. The metal 
has 
been divided into little panels, and each panel has a small scene done in bas-relief, Most of these scenes 
depict the everyday life of lizard men, but those in the top panels on each sideshow a great Lizard King 
wielding a fearsome trident in battle against humans, or receiving sacrifices of humans and other slaves. 
Other depictions of the Lizard King in some of the panels show him with lightning bolts and fireballs 
leaping from his fingertips. These majestic doors are tightly shut. 

These are the doors to the Tomb of the Lizard King. As works of art they would be extremely valuable on 
the open market, commanding about 35,000 gp each if some way can be found to get them to the 
surface. 

The doors have no handles, locks, or other opening devices. They can be opened by a knock spell or by 
speaking the words "Open in the name of Sakatha, the Great King!" All other attempts to open these 
doors 
will fail. When the doors do open, they will open inward, silently. 

6. THE HALL OF TRAPS 

As the doors open and you are able to see inside, you see a corridor to the right and one to the left, each 
going only 30 or 40 feet before ending in front of a door. Another corridor runs straight ahead, also 
ending 
in a door. 

The doors are standard wooden doors with metal supports and hinges. None of them are locked. 

The hallway is called "The Hall of Traps," because it contains a number of mechanical and magical 
devices 
designed to capture the unwary grave robber. The corridors to the right and left of the doors have 
collapsing floor stones in front of each door, which will plunge any character in their area into a 20' deep 
pit full of spikes. Any character failing into such a pit will take 2-24 points of damage from the fall and 
from the spikes in the bottom of the pit. These traps can be sprung by tapping firmly on the floor with a 
staff, pole, or like object. However, exactly one melee round after either of the pit traps is sprung, the 
ceiling stones 10' behind the traps will fall to the floor, completely sealing off the pit trap area. The 
stone 
that falls will fill the corridor's entire width and will be a foil 10' thick. Any player standing in the square 
beneath the falling ceiling will have a 3% chance per point of dexterity to scramble out of the way of the 
failing stone. Those who fail this dexterity roll will take 6-60 points of damage. 

The central corridor is also trapped in thelO'section marked T on the DM's map. The door at the end of 
this corridor is unlocked, but as soon as it is opened, 10 spears will be fired through holes in the wall on 
either side of the corridor. These holes are covered with an illusion to appear as normal parts of the 
wall; 
normally they cannot be seen at all. Each spear will inflict 1-6 points of damage plus causing a save vs. 
Poison at +1. Characters failing this save will die. 

7. BANQUET HALL OF THE LIZARD KING 

You are looking in the entrance of a strange, triangular room. In the center of the room is a large table, 
folly 
12' long, spread with every type of delicacy. There are eight chairs around the table; the chair at the 
head is 
a throne made of wood with a very large shell that serves as its back. The tableware is all of gold. On the 



walls are pictures of lizard men at a great feast. The pictures appear to be made of an unrecognizable 
mosaic material. 

The material is difficult to recognize because the PCs have never seen anything quite like it before. It is 
in 
fact strongly magical, and will radiate magic if a detect magic is cast. So will the food and tableware. 

One turn after the party has entered the room, the lizard men in the mosaic will begin to step out of the 
picture into the room. They will be extremely friendly and gracious, and will even speak the common 
tongue in a disgusting sort of way. They will say, "Greetings, guests of the Great King. Welcome to the 
eternal feast. Please, let us serve you." 

If the PCs agree to join the feast, the lizard men will serve them every type of food, wine, and delicacy in 
a 
seemingly endless supply until the PCs grow tired of eating. After eating their fill, the PCs may leave the 
room by any route they choose; the lizard men will then step back into the mosaic. 

Should the party behave in a hostile manner, the lizard men will know that they are not guests of the 
Great 
King, and will begin to attack. Only five lizard men will step out of the picture initially; if a melee begins, 
five will step out each round until the melee ends. All will have the same statistics (AC 5; MV 6"//l 2"; HD 
2+1; hp 10; #AT 3; D 1-2/1-2/1-8). None of the lizard men will leave the room: their basic tactic in melee 
will be to block the doors while reinforcements from the mosaics attack the party. 

This process will continue indefinitely, but there will never be more than 50 lizard men in the room at 
one 
time. The bodies of slain lizard men will vanish magically at the end of the round in which they are killed. 

These lizard men are not illusions, and disbelieving will not help the party. The powerful, strange spell 
that 
created this situation was cast long ago by an 18 th level magic user and can be dispelled by a successful 
dispel magic spell. Protection from evil will also keep the lizard men from harming the party. 

The food offered by the lizard men will neither harm nor help the party; it has no nutritional value at all, 
but seems tasty and filling while being eaten. The party need not eat the food to avoid an attack; they 
may 
pass through the room without harm so long as they behave in a friendly and polite manner. 

The special effect of this room will be triggered whenever the door or the trap door is opened; the 
behavior 
of the lizard men will adjust itself naturally to any situation. 


8. THE HALL OF HUNTING 


As soon as the door to this room is opened, a magic mouth will appear on the inside of the door and say, 
"Great King, live forever! Welcome to your hunt!" You should then read the following description to 
your 
players: 



On the long wall opposite- the door is a huge mosaic that depicts a hunting scene. The main figure, at 
the 
end of the wall near the door, is a hideous, huge lizard man wearing a golden crown. In his hands he 
holds a 
great longbow with arrow nocked and ready to let loose. At his side hangs a large trident. Before him 
are 
three large hounds, and charging at them and him is a huge ape. 

This room is empty except for the mosaics, which provide illumination for the entire room. If any 
member 
of the party remains here for one full turn, the ape will leap out of the mosaic and charge the party from 
the 
opposite end of the room. The ape is a Carnivorous Ape (AC 6; MV 12"; HD 5; hp 23; #AT 3; D 1-4/1- 
4/1-8; SA: rending damage of 1-8 points additional if strikes same opponent with both hands). The ape 
will 
attempt to attack until killed. 

If the ape is killed, the three hounds will leap from the mosaic to attack the party. They are Hell Hounds 
(AC 4; MV 12"; HD 4; hp 2x15,1x23; #AT 1 bite; D 1-10; SA: breathe fire 1" for 4 hp damage-2hp if the 
target makes save vs. Breath weapon; SD: 50% chance to locate hidden or invisible creature, gain 
surprise 
on 1-4, can be surprised only on a 1). 

The hell hounds will attack until they are killed. If they are killed, the lizard man (really a Lizard King) 
will step out of the mosaic and attack. His first attack will consist of firing an arrow at a randomly 
selected 
party member; for the remaining rounds he will attack with his trident. The Lizard King (AC 3; MV 15"//1 
2"; HD 8; hp 39; #AT 1 [2 with bowl; D 5-20 [1-6 with arrows]; SA: skewering on any "to hit" roll 5 or 
more greater than needed, does double damage at a minimum of 15 points of damage; MR: 20%). 

Like the lizard men in Room 7, none of these creatures are illusions. A dispel magic that is successful 
against an 18 th level spell caster's powers will cause the dweomer of the room, and the creatures, to 
vanish; 
protection from evil will prevent them from attacking the players. None of the creatures in this room 
will 
ever leave it to pursue a party. 


9. HALL OF WAR 


The wall opposite the door of this room is complete^; 
lizard man, wearing a gold crown, who is leading a 
hill giants. Almost as soon as the door is opened, a 
forever! May you have victory after victory for all 


y covered with a mosaic that depicts a huge, hideous 
arge troop of lizard men into battle against a group of 
nouth forms in it and speaks, saying, "Great King, live 
eternity!" 


One full turn after any member of the party has open ed the door, four hill giants (AC 4; MV 1211, HD 
8+1; 
hp 43, 33, 40, 39; #AT 1; D 2-16; SA: hurling rocks for 2-26 points of damage; SD: catch rocks and similar 
missiles 30%) will step out of the mosaic the full length of the room away and rush to attack the party. 

They will fight until killed. 

If the hill giants are killed,10 lizard men (AC 5; MV67/12"; HD 2+1; hplO each; #AT 3; D 1-2/1-2/1-8) 
will step from the mosaic and attack the party. Should the lizard men be killed, the Lizard King will turn 
and face out of the painting, firing an arrow at a randomly determined party member for 1-6 points of 
damage. On the following round he will step out of the mosaic and attack with his special trident. Lizard 
King (AC3; MV15'o//12"; HD 8; hp 39; #AT 1; D 5-20; SA: skewering with trident on any roll 5 or more 
greater than the number needed to hit, doing double damage and a minimum of 15 points; MR: 20%). 

As with Rooms 7 and 8, a dispel magic against a spell cast by an 18 th level magic user will dispel these 
magical creatures, and protection from evil will keep them from attacking the party. 


10. THE LOWER TEMPLE ANTEROOM 


The stairs lead down into a room with only one exit: a pair of large, black stone doors. On either side of 
these doors is a basin with water in it. 

The two doors are solid, but unlocked. Each has a large brass pull ring attached to it, so the doors open 
toward the room the party is in. Characters who listen at the door will hear a low, unholy chanting 
coming 
from the room on the other side 


11. THE LOWER TEMPLE 




As the door opens, you see a familiar figure 60' in front of you behind a bloody altar. It is the cleric who 
attacked you at the Count of Eor's palace in Vendare! He is flanked by two others of his order, and there 
are a number of lizard men in the room, standing with their backs to you. Apparently you have 
interrupted 
some kind of ceremony. 

The figure behind the altar is in fact Mordrin (AC 5; MV 9"; C9; hp 39; #AT 1; D 2-7+2; AL CE). He is 
wearing his chain mail beneath his black robe, and carrying his mace +2. His spells: 

First level: command (x3),protection from good, cause fear Second level: hold person (x2), know 

alignment, spiritual hammer 

Third level: dispel magic, feign death, curse 

Fourth level: cure serious wounds, undetectable lie 

Fifth level: flame strike 

Flanking him are two assistants: 

Ogmond (AC 10; MV 12"; C5; hp 22; #AT 1; D 1-6) is unarmored and carrying only his normal staff with 
him. His spells: 

First level: bless, command, sanctuary 

Second level: silence 15' radius, hold person, resist fire 

Third level: animate dead 

Thalon (AC 2; MV 12"; C 5; hp 19; #AT 1; D 2-5+2) is wearing chain mail +3 and carrying a hammer +2. 
Spells: 

First level: cure light wounds, resist cold, sanctuary 
Second level: chant, speed poison, spiritual hammer 
Third level: dispel magic 

Also in this room are 12 Lizard men (AC 5; MV 6"//12"; HD 2+1 hp 10 each; #AT 3; D 1-2/1-2/1-8). The 
lizard men will obey any orders given by the clerics. 

Mordrin will attempt to handle the situation, using the lizard men to melee attack while the clerics 
throw 
sanctuary on themselves and then command at the players. If the encounter is turning against the 
clerics, 
Mordrin will leave the others to their fate and attempt to flee through either secret door. He will go as 
quickly as possible to warn Sakatha in Room 14. 

Note: There is a possibility, although slight, that Mordrin will have been captured or killed before this 
encounter takes place. If this is the case, the DM should run the encounter with only the subordinate 
clerics 
and the lizard men confronting the players. 

The two secret doors are operated by tiny levers behind the altar stone. There are three such levers. 
Lowering the lever on the right (as the character faces the altar from the rear) opens the door at "A." 
Lowering the lever on the left opens the door at "B." Lowering the lever in the center causes an arrow of 
slaying, thieves to be fired from door B directly at the back of any character at the altar. This arrow will 
automatically hit for 1-6+3 points of damage and will kill any thief who fails to save vs. Spells. This trap 
may be detected using the normal means of detecting traps or magical detections. 

There is no treasure in this room other than the items mentioned on the clerics present. 

12. CHAMBER OF THE BRIDES OF SAKATHA 

This horribly dark, round chamber contains a hideous sight: four coffins with their lids barely cracked 
open 
are arranged in an even pattern around a fifth in the center of the room. The entire area gives off a 
carnal 
stench, and the furnishings of the room are rotten and tattered. 



The coffins contain the five brides of Sakatha. Four are dead, but their bodies are preserved 
nonetheless. 
The fifth, in the center coffin, has already been turned into a lizard vampire (AC 1; MV 12"/18"; HD 4+3; 
hp 24; #AT 1; D 2-5; SA: energy drain, 2 levels; SD: +1 or better magical weapon to hit; MR: sleep, charm, 
and hold spells do not affect, immune to poison and paralysis, half damage from cold or electrical based 
spells). Like any normal vampire, her gaze can charm with -2 on saving throws; she can assume bat or 
gaseous form at will, and can summon 10-100 bats or 3-18 wolves in 2-12 rounds. She can regenerate 3 
hit 
points per round. 

At the moment, this repulsive creature is resting. She will not be awakened by Mordrin or others seeking 
to 
warn Sakatha, but she will awaken naturally one turn after the party has entered the room, or sooner if 
a 
loud noise is made in the room. If attacked and seeing that the encounter is going against her, she will 
turn 
gaseous and flee to Sakatha's chamber, Room 14. 

There is no treasure in this room. The treasure of the brides has been stored in Sakatha's personal 
treasure 
room (Room 15). 

13. SAKATHA'S STUDY 

This room is obviously a magic user's study. Several abstruse books of magical lore are scattered about, 
including several relating to the summoning and binding of demons. The room is full of tables and 
shelves 
filled with vials, chemicals, and the apparatus of magic. There are, however, no notes, notebooks, or 
other 
items of great value here. 

This room is not significantly different from any other higher level magic user's study There are no items 
of particular value, although there is a nearly complete supply of material components for all the spells 
listed in Sakatha's spell book The book is in his treasure room, Room 15. 

14. SAKATHA, THE GREAT LIZARD KING 

The precise situation in the room at the instant the party enters will depend upon what has happened so 
far 
in the adventure. 

1. If the party has penetrated this far in less than 8 hours of game time, and if Mordrin did not get here 
to 
warn Sakatha, Sakatha will be asleep in his coffin. 

2. If Sakatha has been warned, he will be awake and waiting. The person or creature who warned him 
will 
also be present. 

3. If the party has taken more than 8 hours to penetrate this far, but Sakatha has not been explicitly 
warned, 
he will be awake but not on guard. 

Note that Sakatha has been warned only if the text from an earlier encounter has said that a creature or 
character would go to warn him, and then only if the party did not prevent that character or creature 
from 
delivering the warning. 

If the party has the extreme good fortune to get here while Sakatha is asleep, he may be killed in one 
melee 
round using the standard methods for destroying vampires. This assumes, of course, that the party 
realizes 
that Sakatha is a vampire (of sorts). 

Regardless of the precise situation in the room, the DM may begin this encounter by reading the 
following 
description: 

As your light penetrates the awesome gloom of this room, you behold a chamber that is stunningly evil 
in 
appearance. The floors are smooth marble streaked with black, the walls and columns the same. The 
sole 
adornments, paintings of demonic figures, are spaced about the side walls. Against the rear wall you see 
a 
huge marble stone that resembles an altar. Resting atop it is an object made of reeds and pitch, 
some9Tong 
and 3'deep. In front of this display is a wooden throne, carved with gargoyles' heads at the end of its 
arms 
and on top of its posts. 



At this point, the DM should continue the description according to the circumstances. If Sakatha is 
awake, 
he will without doubt be seated on his throne, his great trident in his right hand. Any creatures or 
characters 
with him will be standing by his left side. 


Sakatha's preferred method of combat begins by his casting a powerful spell, such as cloud kill, and then 
assuming gaseous form, re-forming and striking with his trident or casting other spells at will. If the bride 
is present, she will not become involved in the battle unless personally attacked; Sakatha prefers to be 
the 
hero in her presence. If Sakatha is defeated, she will attempt to flee in gaseous form, then return to her 
coffin after the party has gone. She will fight only when absolutely forced to do so. 


If Mordrin, however, is with Sakatha, he will fight fanatically and to the death. 


Sakatha will not use his power to summon bats or wolves unless the encounter is obviously going 
against 
him. If forced to summon these creatures, he will summon the wolves. 

If Sakatha is reduced to zero hit points, he will assume gaseous form and then occupy anyone of his 
brides' 
coffins or his own secret coffin in Room 17. If all of these coffins have been destroyed, Sakatha will be 
destroyed. 

Sakatha's statistics are: (AC 1; MV12"/18"; HD 8+3; hp 42; #AT 1; D 5-10 or by weapon; SA: energy 
drain, 2 levels, or skewer with trident; SD: +1 or better magical weapon to hit; MR: sleep, charm, hold 
spells, poison and paralysis do not affect, one-half damage from spells based on cold or electricity). 

Sakatha has all other characteristics of a vampire, and can use his trident as described in the FIEND 
FOLIO 
TOME p. 61) and the NEW MONSTERS section of this module. Spells: 



First level: magic missile (5 for 2_5 points of damage apiece), spider climb, jump, enlarge 
Second level: web, stinking cloud, detect good 

Third level: fireball, clairvoyance, protection from good 10' radius, lightning bolt (acquired through 
Rary's 
Mnemonic Enhancer) 

Fourth level: dig, wall of fire 
Fifth level: cloudkill 

Sakatha casts all spells at 9 th level of spell use. 

DM's Note: The spells listed for Sakatha are suggested: the DM should feel free to substitute spells from 
the spell book found in Room 15, depending on how the adventure is going. If the party has made it this 
far with relatively little damage, Sakatha's arsenal of spells might be strengthened by choosing other 
spells 
from the book. 

Once the secret door to Room 14A has been discovered, it can be opened easily with a push. The door 
to 
Room 17 can be opened only with a knock spell. 

15. THE TREASURE OF SAKATHA 

The corridor before you ends in a painting of a demon. 

The corridor actually ends in another secret door. The area in front of the door is trapped with a 10' x 
10' 
pit trap; characters stepping on the floor here will automatically fall for2dl2 points of damage into a 20' 
pit 
with spikes. The door can be opened by a knock spell, or by a special key found in Sakatha's coffin in 
Room 14 (see above). 

Sakatha's treasure is piled in a chaotic heap in the middle of the room. The treasure consists of 8,000 gp, 
3,000 pp, a javelin of lightning, 23 silk packets of dust of disappearance, a javelin of piercing, a crystal 
ball, 
a ring of wishes with one wish left, a potion of extra-healing, a scroll (curse: disease fatal to reader in 2-8 
turns unless cured), and a scroll of 4 clerical spells resist fire, find the path, raise dead, cure critical 
wounds). 

SAKATHA'S SPELL BOOK 

Sakatha's spell book is clearly just that, and will be recognized as a book of spells as soon as it is seen. 
The 
book is a large, thick book with gold-plated wooden covers. It is closed and locked with a simple clasp 
lock. There are no runes or inscriptions of any kind on the cover. The book, however, carries a special 
curse: any person (other than Sakatha) who 

ever uses the book can never be rid of it, and that person will lose 1 point of intelligence per week. 
When 
the intelligence score is reduced to zero, the person will die (no save). If buried, the dead person will 
awaken as a vampire in 1-10 weeks. A remove curse spell will enable the victim to be rid of the book and 
will stop the drain on intelligence, but will not restore the lost intelligence points. 

Sakatha's spell book contains the following spells: 

First level: affect normal fires, burning hands, comprehend languages, detect magic, erase, feather fall, 
hold 
portal, identify, jump, light, magic missile, enlarge, read magic, spider climb, sleep, ventriloquism, 
shocking grasp, Nystul's Magic Aura 

Second level: darkness 15' radius, detect evil, detect invisibility, forget, invisibility, knock, magic mouth, 
mirror image, ray of enfeeblement, rope trick, scare, shatter, stinking cloud, web, wizard lock, 
Leomund's 
Trap, ESP 

Third level: blink, clairaudience, clairvoyance, dispel magic, explosive runes, fireball, haste, hold person, 
invisibility 10' radius, lightning bolt, Leomund's Tiny Hut, protection from evil 10' radius, protection from 
normal missiles, slow, suggestion, tongues, water breathing, gust of wind Fourth level: charm monster, 
confusion, dig, dimension door, extension 1, fear, fire shield, fumble, ice storm, minor globe of 
invulnerability, polymorph other, Rary's Mnemonic Enhancer, remove curse, wall of fire, wall of ice, 
wizard eye, hallucinatory terrain, plant growth 



Fifth level: Bigby's Interposing Hand, cloudy magic jar, feeblemind, teleport 


16. PRISONERS 

Even as you approach the door to this chamber, you can hear moaning, screaming, and pleas for mercy. 

You find that the door is locked. 

Once the lock is opened, read the continuation of the description: 

The sight before you is appalling, for there are over 50 humans being held captive here. All are in sad 
condition, and have obviously been ill-treated, poorly fed, and beaten for sport. 

The prisoners are mainly peasants. All desire to escape, but none know the way out. They are incapable 
of 
fighting and will have to be aided if they are to get out alive. They will gratefully obey the orders of any 
character(s) they believe to be genuinely trying to lead them out of this prison. Note that abuse of these 
prisoners (using them to check out Room 14 before the party enters, for example) would be a serious 
violation of any good character's alignment. 

17. SECRET COFFIN ROOM 

You see nothing in this room except a coffin made of reeds 
and pitch. 

This is Sakatha's secretly hidden "extra coffin." It can be destroyed by removing the earth it contains, or 
by 
applying holy water. 


NEW MONSTERS 

VAMPIRIC LIZARD MAN 

FREQUENCY: Very rare 
NO. APPEARING: 1 
ARMOR CLASS: 1 
MOVE: 12718" 

HIT DICE: 6+2 
% IN LAIR: 25% 

TREASURE TYPE: P, Y 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 5-10 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: Energy drain as vampire 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: +1 or better magic weapon to hit 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: As vampire 

INTELLIGENCE: High 

ALIGNMENT: Chaotic Evil 

SIZE: L 

PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Attack/Defense Modes: Nil 

Aside from its number of hit dice, the vampiric lizard man is in all respects a vampire. The origin of these 
horrid creatures was the result of the dying wish to Sakatha, the great Lizard King who accidentally 
wished 
himself into a vampiric existence. 



Females of this types are like their male counterparts, but have only 4+3 hit dice, and because they are 
not 

as strong (Strength 18), 

do only 2-5 points of damage per blow. 

Sakatha, the vampiric Lizard King, is a special case. In addition to having all the characteristics of a 
vampire, Sakatha can strike with his special trident for 5-20 points of damage. On a "to hit" roll 5 or 
greater than the minimum needed, the trident will do double damage at a minimum of 15 points. This 
will 
happen only when the trident is wielded by a Lizard King. Sakatha has spell capabilities as a 9 th level 
magic user. 


PREGENERATED PLAYER CHARACTERS 


CHARACTER 

Jubelo 

Hanar 

Azure 

Anselm Maris 

Erlo 

Ayar 

Perin 

SEX 

m 

m 

F 

m 

F 

m 

m 

m 

RACE 

H 

H 

H 

H 

E 

OE 

H 

Q 

LVL/CLASS 

F7 

F5 

C 7 

C6 

F5/MU7 C5/MU5MU7 

T7 

HEIGHT 


5'10" 

6'0" 

5'3" 

6'4" 

4'10" 

5'6" 

5'9" 

WEIGHT 


170 

181 

128 

192 

83 

92 

153 

ALIGNMENT 

NG 

CG 

LG 

NG 

NG 

CG 

NG 

N 

AC 

2 

1 

0 

0 

1 

4 

3(4) 

7(10) 

HP 

42 

27 

38 

30 

25 

19 

14 

30 

MOVE 

12" 

9" 

9" 

9" 

9" 

9" 

12" 

12" 

STR 

17 

16 

13 

15 

16 

14 

12 

14 

INT 

10 

10 

9 

9 

16 

15 

17 

13 

WIS 

9 

9 

17 

17 

11 

16 

13 

12 

DEX 

13 

13 

13 

13 

13 

8 

15 

17 

CON 

14 

14 

16 

11 

12 

13 

14 

14 

CHR 

9 

9 

13 

9 

11 

14 

14 

13 





SAVING THROWS* 




DEATH 

10 

11 

7 

9 

11 

9 

13 

12** 

PETRI/POLY 

11 

12 

10 

12 

11 

12 

11 


RODS/WANDS 

12 

13 

11 

13 

9 

11 

9 

12** 

BREATH 

12 

13 

13 

15 

13 

15 

13 

15** 

SPELL 

13 

14 

12 

14 

10 

12 

10 

13** 

ARMOR 


Chain 

Plate 

Plate 

Splint 

Plate 

Chain 

None 


and 

and 

and 

and 

and 

and 



Shield 

Shield 

Shield 

Shield 

Shield 

Shield 

Shield 



ATTACK ADJ* 

+1 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

DAMAGE ADJ* +1 

+1 

0 

0 

+1 

0 

0 

0 

REACTION/ 









ATTACK ADJ* 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

+2 

MAGICAL 









ATTACK ADJ 

0 

0 

+3 

+3 

0 

+2 

0 

0 

OPEN DOORS 

1-3, 

1-3 

1-2 

1-2 

1-3 

1-2 

1-2 

1-2 

BEND/LIFT 

13% 

10% 

4% 

7% 

10% 

7% 

4% 

7% 



THIEVING ABILITIES: PERIN 


Pick Pockets 

70% 

Hide in Shadows 

53% 

Open Locks 

67% 

Hear Noises 

30% 

Find Trap 

55% 

Climb Walls 

79% 

Move Silently 

70% 

Read Languages 

30% 


Jubelo: 

Hanar: 

Azure: 

Anselm: 

Maris: 

good 

Erlo: 

Ayar: 

Perin: 


Common, Hobgoblin, Lizardman, neutral good 
Common, Halfling, Elvish, chaotic good 
Common, Halfling, lawful good 

Common, Elvish, neutral good 

Elvish, Common, Gnome, Halfling, Goblin, Hobgoblin, Orcish, Gnoll, Ogrish, neutral 

Common, Elvish, Gnome, Halfling, Goblin, Hobgoblin, Orcish, Gnoll, chaotic good 
Common, Elvish, Gnome, Hill Giant, Troll, Lizardman, Orcish, neutral good 
Common, Halfling, Dwarvish, Elvish, Gnome, Goblin, Orcish, neutral, thieve's cant 


NOTES: 

* No adjustment has been made for magic items. 

** Constitution bonuses apply if effect is from rod, wand, staff or spell. 

(#) Indicates armor class without dexterity bonus. 

MAGIC ITEMS AND SPELLS 

NOTE: Magic users have their spell books listed along with the number of spells they may normally 
carry. 
Spells may be chosen from those in the book. Clerics have listed the number of spells they may carry. All 
other items listed are magic items. Normal equipping of the party is assumed to take place after the 
initial 
encounter. 

JUBELO 

shield +2 

long sword +1, Nine Lives Stealer (2 uses left) 
potion of super heroism 
horn of Valhalla (bronze) 

(summons 2-8 4 th level Berserkers for 6 turns, AC 4; MV 9"; F4; hp 24 each; #AT 1 at +2 or 2; D by 
weapons type; armed with battle axe and spear) 


ERLO 

phylactery of faithfulness 
potion of extra-healing 
mace +2 

incense of meditation (1 piece) 

Clerical spells allowed: 

5 x First Level, 5 x Second Level, 1 x Third Level 

Magic User spells allowed: 

4 x First Level, 2 x Second Level, 1 x Third Level 


Spells in Spell Book: 



First level: burning hands, dancing lights, enlarge, friends, jump, read magic, sleep, Tenser's Floating Disc 
Second level: audible glamour, darkness 15'radius, invisibility, mirror image, knock, levitate, web, wizard 
lock 

Third level: monster summoning, clairvoyance, slow, fireball 


PERIN 

dagger +2, +3 vs. creatures larger than man-sized 

bag of holding (weight 35 lbs; weight limit 1000 lbs., volume 150 cubic feet) 
boots of striding and springing 


MARIS 

arrows +3 (10) 
long sword +2 
plate mail +2 
ring of fire resistance 

Spells allowed: 4 x First Level; 3 x Second Level; 2 x Third Level; 1 x Fourth Level. 

Spells in Spell Book: First level: read magic, charm person, detect magic, erase, identify, magic missile, 
message, shield, spider climb, unseen servant 

Second level: forget, shatter, pyrotechnics, knock, rope trick, detect invisibility, ray of enfeeblement, 
fools 
gold, scare Third level: phantasmal force, lightning bolt, explosive runes, fireball, dispel magic, tongues, 
protection from normal missiles, haste, fly, feign death 

Fourth level: dimension door, fumble. Rary's Mnemonic Enhancer, minor globe of invulnerability 


AZURE 

staff of curing (8 charges) 
plate mail +2 
scroll with 
divination 
remove curse 
find traps 

(all at 8 th level of spell use) 

Spells allowed: 

5 x First Level; 5 X Second Level; 3 x Third Level; 1 x Fourth 
Level 


ANSELM 

staff of striking (20 charges) 

splint mail +3 

potion of extra-healing 


Spells allowed: 

5 x First Level; 5 x Second Level; 3 x Third Levei 



AYAR 


bracers of defense (AC 4) ring of feather falling wand of wonder 
scroll with 

polymorph self (8 th level of spell use) 

Spells allowed: 

4 x First Level, 3 x Second Level, 2 x Third Level, 1 x Fourth 
Level 

Spells in Spell Book. 

First level: light, mending, read magic, friends, unseen servant, identify, charm person, burning hands, 
push, sleep, find familiar, detect magic, magic missile 

Second level: ESP, forget, invisibility, knock, levitate, mirror image, locate object, rope trick, scare, 
strength, web 

Third level: blink, dispel magic, fireball, flame arrow, hold person, invisibility 10' radius, Leomund's Tiny 
Hut, phantasmal force, slow, suggestion, water breathing Fourth level: charm monster, fire shield, 
massmorph, polymorph self, wall of ice, wizard eye 


HANAR 

long sword +1, Flame Tongue: 

+2 vs. regenerating creatures 
+3 vs. cold-using, inflammable, or avian creatures 
+4 vs. undead 
plate mail +1 
potion of invulnerability 




















The B a Had of Sakatha 

Sakatha once was the Great Lizard King, 

Said to have power stored in a ring. 

O'er swamplands and plains Sands his dominions they spread; 
His very name tided ail creatures with dread. 

To build his great tomb in the midst of the marsh, 

Many men died in slavery most harsh. 

His minions took ail o( our best for his altar; 

Hoi for a day did his bloody thirst faster. 

Then there arose the great Count of Bor, 

The greatest of heroes in those days of yore; 

He slew Sakatha in the Battle of Way combe; 

The Lizard Men carried their slaughtered chief home, 

And now he awaits in the cold sleep of death 
His day of awakening, his firs! nev/born breath. 

Though deep in the ground his followers closed him, 

He'li come back for vengeance on those who opposed him. 

















COUNCIL ROOMS 


PALACE OF JOHN BRUNIS, COUNT OF EOR 

GROUND FLOOR PLAN: AUDIENCE CHAMBERS 






DOOR 


DOUBLE DOORB 


STAIRS 


PUBLIC 


AUDIENCE 

CHAMBER 


ALTAR 


CHAfR 


STONE WALKWAY 


OR ASS 
COURTYARD 


Scale: 1 Square 5 Togl 


OUTER WALLl 


CITY STREET 




r 

n 



- 



CHAPEL 






Q 


.a 




_ 


-r~^-- 



"M. J 

js 

-jHrnni 

cT 

t 


AUDIENCE 

CHAMBER 



r 


b n - 


~rr 

rn 


rn r ! 

] TO OTHER .  


! 1 r~ 

. ANTEROOM .1 

J PALACE AREAS 


j 1 


1 

. n 


_ u_u 

1 

* 

w 

^  ' rn 

.. . ! >r 

" - 

1 ' 

- 




13J TSR Hatties, me. All fligiila Reserves. 










KEY 


mvEft 


SWAMP 


VEMDARC 


?AnmH 


HEWCpWOE 


ttQ Ul k'S fi R EASTUT+f E. GREAT 
ll|*N :-: j-AV SfllOdt- 


WAVjQOMDE 


WAYCQMBE 

VILLAGE 


W BURNED HUT 


COPSE 


1 Square = 1.0 leer 


1 Has = 5 Miles 


THE LANDS OF THE COUNT OF EOR 


| $: : C1T 

Q [village 


 TOWN 

HIGHWAY 

A ^ 


* '9E2 TSR Hobbies. I ms. All n^hte F?e^"vsd 




























WAYCOMfiE 


TEMPLE -SITE 


BRIDGE 


STARTING POINT 


PATH OF 

STEPHEN DF- MANIS 


HIGHWAY 


LANC fMUCK} 


c- lflS? Tfla Hphbies. |nc. All n 0hl3 PKHir'iviri. 


Seals; 1 Hex  1 m\Q 





















THE ANCIENT TEMPLE 


SECRET 
. TRAPDOOR 


PILLAR 


BROKEN 

PILLAR 


WATER 


ALTAR 


SHELL 

CURTAIN 


MUD ISLAND 


AULICUS' LAIR 


TEMPLE 


'DUNGEQN LEVEL 1 


DUNGEON LEVEL 2 


Schematic Diagram 

Of the Tomb Of the Lizard King 


FLAMING PiT 


1532 TSR Hobbies-. Inc ALRighia nerved. 







9 





STAIRS STRAPPED* 1j||| 

Ns 


























































'$&W. 


C-1932 T5R Kubbits, inc Al Rifllva 
















DUNGEON LEVEL 2 



f 19B2 T5R hiJbfoiihK. inc Ali Rir|h;g Reserved 




























Tomb of the Lizard King 

by Mark Acres 

The southlands of Eor are being despoiled. Mer 
chants will no longer run their caravans on the main 
highway past the quiet village of Waycombe. The 
peasants are fleeing their lands, and all are demand 
ing protection from the powerful Count of Eor. The 
goodly count has sent a troop of his trusted fighters 
to exterminate the brigands believed responsible for 
these outrages, but weeks have passed, and still there 
is no word from this force. 

Now John Brunis. Count of Eor. has turned to you for 
aid. After taking counsel with the High Priest of Eor. 
he believes that a small party of cunning, bold adverv 
turers may succeed where armed might has failed. 
You find yourselves faced with many mysteries! 

Why has robbery suddenly erupted in the peaceful 
southlands? 

How could mere brigands be as powerful as the foes 
described to you by their numerous victims? 

Is this realy mere robbery? Or is there some truth to 
the rumors, told only in hushed whispers, about the 
beginnings of a hideous plot being hatched by an 
ancient, vile and evil foe of all manWnd? 

The answers to these mysteries wil be found by only 
the most brave and cunning In this extremely chal 
lenging adventure for characters levels 5-7. 









