Tomb  of  Horrors
Tomb  of  Horrors
LEGEND  OF  THE  TOMB
The  legend  of  the  tomb  is  an  old  story  with  many  parts,  some  of which  may  be  lost  or  obscured.  Characters  attempting  to  glean  spe¬ cial  information  by  consulting  sages  or  through  legend  lore  spells may  still  have  difficulty  obtaining  as  much  background  as  they  de¬ sire,  for  the  scraps  of  information  are  often  minimal  and  mystical.
These  bits  of  information  are  available  as  clues,  and  characters  can make  of  them  what  they  wish:  Ancient  Burial  Places;  Ancient  Tombs; Sorcerous  Kings;  Challenges;  Surpassing  (Certain  Death);  Soul  Eat¬ ers;  Treasure;  Great .  .  .  The  other  parts  of  the  legend  can  be  fur¬ nished  by  the  Dungeon  Master  from  the  description  which  follows:
The  Tomb  of  Honors:  Somewhere  under  a  lost  and  lonely  hill  of grim  and  foreboding  aspect  lies  a  labyrinthine  crypt.  It  is  filled  with terrible  traps  and  not  a  few  strange  and  ferocious  monsters  to  slay the  unwary.  It  is  filled  with  rich  treasures  both  precious  and  magical, but  in  addition  to  the  aforementioned  guardians,  there  is  said  to  be  a demi-lich  who  still  wards  his  final  haunt  (Be  warned  that  tales  told have  it  that  this  being  possesses  powers  which  make  him  nearly undefeatable).  Accounts  relate  that  it  is  quite  unlikely  that  any  adven¬ turers  will  ever  find  the  chamber  where  the  demi-lich  Acererak  lin¬ gers,  for  the  passages  and  rooms  of  the  Tomb  are  fraught  with  ter¬ rible  traps,  poison  gases,  and  magical  protections.  Furthermore,  the demi-lich  has  so  well  hidden  his  lair,  that  even  those  who  avoid  the pitfalls  will  not  be  likely  to  locale  their  true  goal.  So  only  large  and well-prepared  parties  of  the  bravest  and  strongest  should  even  con¬ sider  the  attempt,  and  if  they  do  locate  the  Tomb,  they  must  be  pre¬ pared  to  fail.  Any  expedition  must  be  composed  of  characters  of  high level  and  varied  class.  They  must  have  magical  protections  and  weap¬ ons,  and  equip  themselves  with  every  sort  of  device  possible  to  in¬ sure  their  survival.
Possible  Locale  of  the  Tomb:
1 )  The  highest  hill  on  the  Plains  of  luz
2)  An  island  (unmapped)  In  the  Nyr  Dyv
3)  In  the  Bright  Desert
4)  At  the  western  border  of  the  Duchy  of  Geolt
5)  Somewhere  in  the  Vast  Swamp  south  of  Sundl
6)  On  an  island  beyond  the  realm  of  the  Sea  Barons
NOTES  FOR  THE  DUNGEON  MASTER
As  clever  players  will  gather  from  a  reading  of  the  Legend  of  the Tomb,  this  dungeon  has  more  tricks  and  traps  than  it  has  monsters to  fight.  THIS  IS  A  THINKING  PERSON’S  MODULE.  AND  IF  YOUR GROUP  IS  A  HACK  AND  SLAY  GATHERING,  THEY  WILL  BE UNHAPPY!  In  the  latter  case,  it  is  better  to  skip  the  whole  thing  than come  out  and  tell  them  that  there  are  few  monsters.  It  is  this  writer’s belief  that  brainwork  is  good  for  all  players,  and  they  will  certainly benefit  from  playing  this  module,  for  individual  levels  of  skill  will  be improved  by  reasoning  and  experience  -  if  you  regularly  pose  prob¬ lems  to  be  solved  by  brains  and  not  brawl,  your  players  will  find  this module  immediately  to  their  liking.
Negotiation  of  the  Tomb  will  require  quite  a  long  time,  so  be  prepared to  spend  several  sessions  with  this  module.  When  the  game  ends for  the  day,  assume  the  expedition  is  spending  the  intervening  time until  play  again  commences  resting  and  recovering  from  adventur¬ ing  up  to  that  point.  Allowing  actual  game  days  on  a  1/1  basis  gives players  a  chance  to  recover  some  lost  hit  points,  too.  As  there  are  no monsters  to  be  randomly  encountered  within  the  Tomb,  the  party might  be  allowed  to  encamp  close  to  the  entrance  without  fear  of random  encounters,  but  if  you  do  so  opt,  do  not  inform  the  players  of this.
Please  read  and  review  all  of  the  material  herein,  and  become  thor¬ oughly  familiar  with  It,  before  beginning  the  module -as  players  enter keyed  areas,  you  will  note  from  appropriate  information  whether  or not  the  area  has  one  or  more  illustrations  for  visually  highlighting  play. Read  aloud  appropriate  sections,  but  never  give  any  addi¬
tional  information  which  player  characters  would  have  no  way  of  know¬ ing,  and  avoid  facial  expressions  or  voice  tones  which  might  give helpful  hints  or  mislead  players.  The  real  enjoyment  of  this  module  is managing  to  cope,  and  those  players  who  manage  to  do  so  even semi-successfully  will  appreciate  your  refereeing  property  and  allow¬ ing  them  to  “live  or  die”  on  their  own.
The  starting  information  for  the  module  depends  upon  whether  you are  using  the  Tomb  as  an  insertion  into  your  own  campaign,  as  a section  of  THE  WORLD  OF  GREYHAWK,  or  simply  as  a  one-shot exercise  for  your  players.  Because  of  the  variableness,  the  informa¬ tion  for  starting  is  stated  so  as  to  assume  the  expedition  has  arrived at  the  site  of  the  TOMB  OF  HORRORS.  As  Dungeon  Master,  you may  fill  in  whatever  background  Is  needed,  and  if  this  is  a  section  of a  campaign,  players  cannot  have  obtained  the  Legend  information without  consulting  sages,  casting  legend  lore  spells,  finding  the  in¬ formation  in  some  arcane  work,  or  whatever;  all  prior  to  locating  the actual  locale  of  the  Tomb  and  then  getting  to  it,  so  that  background will  have  been  accomplished.  (When  this  module  was  used  at  Ori¬ gins  I,  referees  were  instructed  that  the  hill  had  been  found  (in  the Vast  Swamp,  and  the  party  had  arrived  there  in  barges.)
Start:  The  party  has  arrived  at  the  site  of  the  demi-lich’s  last  haunt. Before  them  is  a  low,  flat  topped  hill,  about  200  yards  wide  and  300 yards  long.  Only  ugly  weeds,  thorns,  and  briars  grow  upon  the  steep sides  and  bald  lop  of  the  60'  high  mound.  There  are  black  rocks upon  the  top  of  the  hill,  and  if  these  are  viewed  from  a  height  of  about 200'  or  so  above  the  mound,  it  will  be  seen  that  the  whole  is  shaped like  a  human  skull,  with  the  piles  of  rock  appearing  as  eye  holes, nose  hole,  and  the  jagged  teeth  of  a  grinning  death’s  head.  A  thor¬ ough  inspection  and  search  of  the  entire  area  will  reveal  only  that  the north  side  of  the  hill  has  a  crumbling  cliff  of  sand  and  gravel  about  20' high  in  about  the  middle  of  the  whole.  (This  is  the  area  34  squares wide  which  forms  the  east-west  axis  of  your  dungeon  map.)  A  low stone  ledge  overhangs  this  eroded  area,  and  shrubs  and  bushes obscure  if  from  observation  at  a  distance.
It  will  require  a  full  turn  for  searching  each  10'  of  this  cliff  area.  Search must  be  done  from  a  distance  with  a  long  spear  or  10'  pole.  Prod¬ ding  must  be  high  in  order  to  collapse  sufficient  material  to  expose  a portion  of  a  tunnel  entrance.  Once  an  entrance  is  exposed,  it  will require  about  1  hour  for  6  characters  working  in  teams  of  3  to  thor¬ oughly  clear  a  passage,  but  a  crawl  space  can  be  opened  in  1  turn by  3  characters  digging  with  swords  and  hands.  Note  that  probing  of the  gravel  and  sand  face  can  begin  wherever  the  players  choose  - east,  west,  middle,  several  locations  or  merely  a  single  one  at  a  time -  leave  this  strictly  to  the  players  to  decide.  The  best  manner  to  handle it  is  to  ask  where  they  will  search,  once  they  have  determined  that they  will  investigate  the  area  and  have  stated  how  it  will  be  done  and with  what.  Remember  low  probing,  or  probing  with  short  implements (daggers,  swords,  etc.)  will  not  reveal  anything.  As  soon  as  any  en¬ trance  is  cleared  and  entered,  go  to  the  KEY.
Note:  Characters  who  become  astral  or  ethereal  in  the  Tomb  will attract  a  type  l-IV  demon  1  in  6,  with  a  check  made  each  round.
2
Tomb  of  Horrors
KEY  TO  THE  TOMB
1.  FALSE  ENTRANCE  TUNNEL:  The  corridor  is  of  plain  stone, roughly  worked,  and  it  is  dark  and  full  of  cobwebs.  The  roof  20' overhead  is  obscured  by  these  hanging  strands,  so  casual  obser¬ vation  will  not  reveal  that  it  is  composed  of  badly  fitting  stones. Daylight  will  be  sufficient  to  reveal  that  there  is  a  pair  of  oaken  doors at  the  end  of  the  passageway.  If  the  roof  is  prodded  with  any  force, or  if  the  doors  are  opened,  the  roof  of  the  tunnel  will  collapse  and inflict  5-50  ( 5d10 )  hit  points  of  damage  upon  each  character  in¬ side  of  it,  with  no  saving  throw.  The  doors  open  outwards  by  great iron  ring  pulls.  The  cobwebs  must  be  burned  away  to  be  able  to inspect  the  tunnel  ceiling,  THIS  AREA  IS  ILLUSTRATED  BY GRAPHIC  #1.
2.  FALSE  ENTRANCE  TUNNEL:  This  is  another  plain  stone passageway,  but  the  celling  is  only  10'  high.  Daylight  will  enable adventurers  to  dimly  see  what  appear  to  be  two  separate  doors  at the  end  of  the  corridor.  The  floor  paving  at  50'  distance  within  the passage  will  shift  slightly  when  characters  tread  upon  its  surface. They  will  hear  a  rumbling  from  behind  (or  beside  if  some  are  at  30' within)  them.  At  this  instant  begin  counting  slowly  to  10 -about 1 14  seconds  per  count -and  it  you  reach  10  before  any  player  has reacted  as  noted  below,  the  huge  stone  block,  10'  thick,  has  slid shut  and  completely  sealed  off  the  passageway.  This  block  cannot be  moved  orforced  back.  Trapped  characters  can  escape  only  by the  following  means:  disintegrate,  phasedoor,  stone-flesh  (as¬ suming  a  sufficient  quantity  of  the  block  can  be  changed),  trans¬ mute  rock-mud,  wish.  Players  giving  notice  that  their  character  is running  out  will  be  able  to  cover  1 '  of  distance/1 "  of  movement  rate for  their  character/count.  Thus,  a  base  6"  movement  rate  means that  the  character  can  cover  6'  of  distance  in  the  space  of  a  single count.  Mentally  note  such  character’s  actions,  and  when  the  10 count  is  finished,  compute  where  each  character  is.  The  block begins  slow  movement,  so  that  at  the  count  of  1  only  a  slight  bit protrudes,  at  2  it  is  2'+  a  bit  out  into  the  corridor,  at  3  it  is  4'+,  at  4  it is  6'+,  at  5  it  is  9',  at  6  it  Is  11'+,  at  7  it  is  13'+,  at  8  it  is  at  16',  at  9  the block  is  18'+  across,  and  at  10  it  has  slammed  shut  and  crushed anything  between  it  and  the  wall.  EXCEPTION:  An  iron  bar  will stop  the  block,  but  only  if  the  bar  is  placed  on  the  floor  where  if  will wedge  the  block.  A  bar  elsewhere  will  bend  and  allow  the  block  to come  shut,  but  1  count  will  be  gained  as  the  bar  bends.  The  doors at  the  end  of  the  passage  are  false  ones.  THIS  AREA  IS  ILLUS¬ TRATED  BY  GRAPHIC  #2.
3.  ENTRANCE  TO  THE  TOMB  OF  HORRORS:  Even  a  bit  of  day¬ light  entering  through  a  crawl  space  or  a  torch  will  reveal  that  this  is an  unusual  tunnel.  Bright,  brilliant  colors  are  to  be  seen  everywhere, the  stones  and  pigments  undimmed  by  the  passage  of  decades. (USE  ILLUSTRATION  #3  NOW.)  The  floor  of  the  corridor  is  a  col¬ orful  mosaic  of  stone,  with  a  distinct,  winding  path  of  red  tiles  about 2'  wide  (the  line  snaking  its  way  south  down  the  corridor)  easily visible  to  the  onlooker,  (See  special  note  regarding  the  pit  traps  at the  end  of  this  paragraph.)  No  stonework  can  be  seen  on  the  walls or  the  ceiling  20'  above,  (for  some  sort  of  cement  or  plaster  has been  smoothed  overall  of  these  surfaces  and  then  illustrated.  The scenes  painted  show  fields  with  kine  grazing,  a  copse  with  several wolves  in  the  background,  slaves  (human,  ore,  elven,  and  strange human-animal  mixture  -  pig-human,  ape-human,  and  dog-human) going  about  various  tasks.  Certain  of  the  frescoes  show  rooms  of some  building  -  a  library  filled  with  many  books  and  scrolls,  a  tor¬ ture  chamber,  a  wizard’s  work  room  (see  4,  below  for  more  details of  this  area).  There  are  chairs,  windows,  boxes,  bales,  doors,  chests, birds,  bats,  spiders  and  all  manner  of  things  shown  on  the  walls.
All  pits  (except  where  noted  to  the  contrary)  throughout  the  Tomb are  1 0'  deep  and  concealed  by  a  counter-weighted  trap  door  which opens  as  soon  as  any  person  steps  on  it.  Thrusting  with  force  upon these  traps  with  a  pole  will  reveal  them  4  in  6  (d6, 1  -4).  Those  who
step  upon  a  pit  lid  will  have  a  base  100%  of  falling,  modified  down¬ wards  by  1  %  per  point  of  dexterity  through  12,  and  2%  for  each point  above  1 2,  i.e.  dexterity  of  1 3  =  1 4%  chance  of  not  falling  into  a pit,  dexterity  of  14  =  16%,  15  =  18%,  16  =  20%,  17  =  22%,  and  18 dexterity  =  24%  chance  of  not  going  in.  At  the  bottom  of  each  pit  are 5  iron  spikes  coated  with  poison.  Roll  d6  to  determine  how  many spikes  wound  the  victim:  1 ,  2,  and  3  meaning  that  number  of  spikes have  wounded  the  victim,  4-6  equal  NONE  HAVE  WOUNDED  the character.  Each  spike  causes  1-6  hit  points  of  damage,  and  the  vic¬ tim  must  make  a  saving  throw  versus  poison  for  each  spike  which wounds  him  of  her.  Any  failure  means  the  victim  is  killed  by  the  poi¬ son.
A.  This  area  is  where  the  torture  chamber  is  painted,  and  the  wall hiding  this  passage  shows  a  painting  of  the  iron  door  which  evi¬ dently  confines  some  sort  of  a  horrid  creature  (its  taloned  and  scaled hands  grasp  the  bars  of  its  small  window)  which  can  be  loosed  to torment  prisoners.  If  the  plaster  and  loth  behind  it  is  broken  away, a  normal,  inward  opening  door  will  be  revealed.
B.  If  the  pattern  of  the  floor  has  been  carefully  observed  and  studied from  the  entrance  to  this  point,  the  individual  with  such  persever¬ ance  will  be  rewarded  by  suddenly  understanding  that  a  message is  contained  in  barely  noticeable  runes  in  the  mosaic  floor.  It  says: «ACERERAK  CONGRATULATES  YOU  ON  YOUR  POWERS  OF  OBSERVATION.  SO  MAKE OF  THIS  WHATEVER  YOU  WISH,  FORYOU  WILL  BE  MINE  IN  THE  END  NO  MAT - TERWHAT!
Go  back  to  the  tormentor  or  through  the  arch, and  the  second  great  hall  you'll  discover.
Shun  green  if  you  can,  but  night's  good  color is  for  those  of great  valor.
If  shades  of  red  stand  for  blood  the  wise will  not  need  sacrifice  aught  but  a  loop  of magical  metal  - you're  well  along  your  march.
Two  pits  along  the  way  will  be  found  to  lead to  a  fortuitous  fall,  so  check  the  wall.
These  keys  and  those  are  most  important  of  all, and  beware  of  trembling  hands  and  what  will  maul.
If  you  find  the  false  you  find  the  true and  into  the  columned  hallyou'll  come, and  there  the  throne  that's  key  and  keyed.
The  iron  men  of  visage  grim  do  more  than meets  the  viewer's  eye.
You've  left  and  left  and  found  my  Tomb and  now  your  soul  will  die.»
4.  FRESCO  OF  THE  WIZARD LY  WORK  ROOM:  The  most outstanding  feature  of  this  area  is  actually  outstanding!  Two  jackal¬ headed  human  figures  (USE  ILLUSTRATION  #4  AS  SOON  AS THE  PARTY  EXAMINES  THIS  AREA  CLOSELY)  are  painted  so as  to  appear  to  be  holding  a  real  bronze  chest.  If  this  box  is  exam¬ ined  closely,  the  viewer  will  note  that  it  is  hinged  on  the  bottom  so as  to  allow  the  lid  to  swing  down  if  a  catch  on  top  is  pressed.  The catch  has  an  easily  detectable  poison  needle  trap,  and  this  can  be avoided  easily  by  pressing  the  stud  with  a  dagger  pommel,  etc. However,  when  the  box  opens,  it  will  appear  to  be  absolutely  empty, but  if  a  character  actually  feels  inside  the  chest  he  or  she  will  find  a rod  which  stands  vertically  from  the  bottom.  This  lever  moves  eas¬ ily,  and  if  it  is  pulled  with  any  force,  it  will  open  the  shaded  trapdoor which  covers  a  30'  deep  pit  (spiked  and  poisoned  as  are  all  traps of  this  sort  here)  which  will  inflict  3-1 8  ( 3d6 )  hit  points  of  damage  to all  who  fall  within,  exclusive  of  spike  damage.  Note:  This  trap  door is  3'  thick  and  cannot  be  detected  by  sounding  or  by  any  magic which  detects  secret  doors,  or  even  traps.  True  seeing  will  reveal a  fine  rectangle  where  the  stone  plug  is,  but  it  will  not  show  what  it does.  Once  triggered,  the  pit  remains  open  thereafter.
5.  THE  ARCH  OF  MIST:  One  section  of  the  path  shown  on  the  floor
3
Tomb  of  Horrors
leads  directly  into  this  archway.  If  any  character  stands  within  1’of the  entranceway  upon  the  path,  the  base  stones  will  glow  yellow on  the  left,  orange  on  the  right,  and  the  keystone  7'  above  will  glow blue.  (When  this  happens,  SHOW  YOUR  PLAYERS  ILLUSTRA¬ TION  #5.)  There  is  a  misty  veil  across  the  archway,  and  nothing will  cause  the  vapors  to  clear,  nor  will  any  sort  of  magic  allow  sight into  the  area,  until  the  glowing  stones  are  pressed  in  the  proper sequence  -  YELLOW,  BLUE,  ORANGE.  If  this  sequence  is pressed,  the  vapors  disappear,  and  the  path  appears  to  go  east¬ wards.  If  the  archway  is  entered  when  it  is  clouded,  those  charac¬ ters  doing  so  will  be  instantly  teleported  to  7  (see  below).  If  it  is passed  through  after  pressing  the  glowing  stones  in  proper  se¬ quence,  those  stepping  through  ON  the  path  will  be  teleported  to 1 1,  those  who  pass  through  OFF  the  path  will  be  sent  back  to  3.
6.  THE  FACE  OF  THE  GREAT  GREEN  DEVIL:  The  other  fork  of the  path  leads  right  up  to  an  evil-appearing  devil  face  set  in  mosaic at  the  corridor’s  end.  (SHOW  YOUR  PLAYERS  GRAPHIC  #6). The  face  has  a  huge  0  of  a  mouth;  it  is  dead  black.  The  whole area  radiates  evil  and  magic  if  detected  for.  The  mouth  opening  is similar  to  a  (fixed)  sphere  of  annihilation,  but  it  is  about  3'  in diameter  -  plenty  of  room  for  those  who  wish  to  leap  in  and  be completely  and  forever  destroyed.
7.  THE  FORSAKEN  PRISON:  This  miserable  cubicle  appears  to have  absolutely  no  means  of  egress,  and  even  a  magical  means of  detection  will  not  indicate  any.  There  are  3  iron  levers  (about  T long)  on  the  south  wall  of  the  chamber.  These  levers  will  move horizontally  or  vertically,  singly  or  in  combination.  Only  the  act  of moving  all  3  together  upwards  or  downwards  will  have  any  re¬ sults.  Moving  them  straight  up  opens  a  small  trapdoor  in  the  cen¬ ter  of  the  ceiling  (10'  above).  Pushing  them  simultaneously  down opens  the  entire  floor  to  a  1 00'  deep  pit  with  no  exit.  Damage  from the  fall  is  10-100  ( lOdlO )  hit  points,  and  the  floor  will  automatically return  to  a  closed  position  in  1  turn,  thus  sealing  any  inside  the  pit there  until  another  victim  triggers  the  drop  away  again.  The  ceiling route  is  a  crawl  space  some  3'  square.  At  the  place  it  turns  east there  is  a  plug  in  the  ceiling  which  can  be  detected  only  with  magi¬ cal  vision  means  or  if  a  character  has  sense  enough  to  test  for secret  doors  by  rapping  -  secret  door  detection  will  not  be  of  avail here  except  as  noted.  Eventually  the  small  tunnel  leads  to  a  magi¬ cal  one-way  door  which  opens  in  the  pit  side  as  shown,  and  play¬ ers  are  back  to  square  one  . . .
8.  GARGOYLE  LAIR:  When  any  door  leading  to  this  room  is  opened, it  frees  a  mutated  4-armed  gargoyle  from  temporal  stasis.  This monster  is  a  huge  (H.P.:  64;  19  strength)  monstrosity  that  attacks 6  times/round  as  a  12  hit  dice  creature  inflicting  damage  as  fol¬ lows:  2d4x4l3d4l1d6,  and  if  any  2  of  the  clawing  attacks  (2d4x 4) hit,  the  creature  will  do  an  additional  7  hit  points  at  rending  dam¬ age  to  the  opponent  so  struck.  Around  the  creature’s  neck  is  a collar  studded  with  huge,  gleaming  gems  (blue  quartz  stones  of 100  g.p.  value  each,  10  gems  total).  Hidden  in  a  secret  compart¬ ment  of  the  collar  is  a  slip  of  parchment  with  the  following  written on  it  in  magical  runes  which  require  a  read  magic  spell  to  under¬ stand:  “Look  low  and  high  for  gold,  to  hear  a  tale  untold.  The  archway  at the  end,  and  onyour  way  you’ll  wend.»  Beneath  the  runes  is  the  initial «g».  (USE  ILLUSTRATION  #8  FOR  THIS  ENCOUNTER).
9.  COMPLEX  OF  SECRET  DOORS:  Each  of  these  portals  must be  opened  by  hand,  and  each  requires  a  different  method  of  open¬ ing.  Meanwhile,  each  round  that  there  are  characters  in  a  shaded room,  a  number  of  bolts  will  be  fired  into  the  area  from  hidden devices  in  the  walls  and  ceilings,  and  1  character,  randomly  deter¬ mined,  in  each  such  area,  will  be  hit  for  1-6  points  of  damage  un¬ less  he  or  she  makes  a  saving  throw  versus  magic.  There  is  abso¬ lutely  no  way  to  prevent  the  bolts  from  being  triggered  and  from hitting,  and  armor  and  spells  will  NOT  have  any  effect  either.  The various  secret  doors  open  as  follows:
A.  pull  down
B.  pivots  centrally
C.  pull  inward  and  up  at  bottom
D.  slides  up
E.  double  panels  pull  inward
F.  slide  left
G.  7  studs  —  press  all  and  door  opens,  1  &  7  bring  door  falling inwards  for  3-18  h.p.  damage
10.  GREAT  HALL  OF  SPHERES:  This  area  is  similar  to  3,  for the  floor  is  of  inlaid  tiles  and  the  walls  and  ceiling  are  painted with  figures  of  animals,  strange  signs  and  glyphs  (which  mean absolutely  nothing),  and  humans  and  human-like  creatures with  spheres  of  different  colors.  These  globes  are  2-dimen- sional,  of  course,  and  their  significance  and  pattern  are  de¬ scribed  below.  (AS  SOON  AS  THE  PARTY  ARRIVES  HERE SHOW  THEM  GRAPHIC  #10.)  From  north  to  south,  with  the west  wall  being  the  first  column,  and  the  east  the  second,  the figures  and  spheres  appear  as  follows:
GOLD  held  high  above  head' (False  door)
ORANGE  held  waist  high (False  door)
PURPLE  at  feet BRONZE  held  waist  high GRAY  at  shoulder (none)
BRIGHT  BLUE  at  feet WHITE  held  high  above  head TURQUOISE  at  shoulder SCARLET  held  waist  high PALE  GREEN  at  feet
PALE  BLUE  at  shoulder SILVER  at  feet (secret  one-way  door)” GREEN  held  high  above  head YELLOW  of  shoulder PINK  held  high  above  head BLACK  at  feet"*
PALE  VIOLET  at  shoulder (none)
RED  held  waist  high"”
BUFF  at  feet (none)
INDIGO  held  high  above  head
'  an  illusion  covering  a  crawlway  to  1 1
"  this  door  can  be  opened  by  a  knock,  disintegrate,  rock  to
mud,  or  stone  to  flesh  spell
“  an  Illusion  covering  a  crawlway  to  14
""  an  Illusion  covering  a  crawlway  to  13
A.  Magic  Archway:  When  the  party  examines  this  arch  give them  ILLUSTRATION  #5.  and  inform  them  that  the  stones glow  in  these  colors  whenever  any  person  comes  within  3' of  the  portal:  lower  left,  OLIVE;  keystone,  RUSSET;  lower right,  CITRON.  No  matter  which  stones  are  pressed  in  what order,  the  archway  remains  clouded  and  veiled  with  a  haze which  nothing  can  enable  the  onlookers  to  see  through.  All living  matter  which  goes  through  the  arch  will  be  teleported to  3,  while  non-living  matter  is  teleported  simultaneously  to 33,  i.e.  characters  stepping  through  will  appear  at  the  start totally  nude,  while  everything  else  with  them  will  go  to  the crypt  of  the  demi-lich  (Cruel  but  most  entertaining  for  the DM  .  .  .)
11.  THE  THREE  ARMED  STATUE:  When  players  find  this smallish  room  they  will  Immediately  see  what  appears  to  be  a broken,  8'  tall  statue  of  a  4-armed  gargoyle  (GRAPHIC  #11), with  a  broken  off  4th  arm  on  the  floor  nearby.  No  amount  of fooling  around  with  the  broken  arm  will  enable  it  to  be  replaced, and  the  statue  will  do  nothing  at  all  meanwhile.  A  close  look  at its  open  and  outstretched  hands,  however,  will  detect  that  a large  gem  (a  100  g.p.  blue  quartz  one  fits  perfectly)  will  fit  in  a carved  depression  in  each  of  the  3  remaining  hands,  while the  broken  one  has  no  such  concavity.  If  3  large  gems  of  any sort  are  placed  within  the  hands,  the  stoney  digits  will  close and  crush  them  to  powder,  dump  the  grains  on  the  floor,  and return  to  their  normal  positions.  If  this  is  repeated  twice  more, and  9  gems  are  so  crushed,  a  10th  (or  more)  will  cause  the triggering  of  a  magic  mouth  spell  to  speak  the  following  words:
4
Tomb  of  Horrors
((.YOUR SACRIFICE  WAS  NOT  IN  VAIN.
LOOK  TO  TUE  FOURTH  TO  FIND  YOUR  GAIN. »
As  these  words  are  spoken,  an  invisible  gem  of  seeing  will  come into  being  in  the  palm  of  the  broken  off  arm  of  the  statue.  The  gem must  be  found  and  the  character  so  doing  will  need  to  wipe  it  free of  a  magical  substance  before  it  can  be  seen  or  used.  Note  that  if the  arm  is  carelessly  moved,  the  gem  will  fall  off  and  roll  away. Detect  invisibility  or  any  other  sort  of  searching  except  by  careful feeling  will  be  useless.  Describe  the  gem,  once  wiped  clean  and visible,  as  an  oval  diamond,  with  two  flat  and  polished  sides,  very clear,  and  about  one  inch  diameter  by  one-quarter  inch  thick.  It  will operate  only  12  times,  then  shatter.
12.  TRAPPED  FALSE  DOOR:  At  this  location,  as  well  as  several others  throughout  the  Tomb,  there  are  false  doors  which  screen  a spear  trap.  (When  one  of  these  doors  is  opened,  hand  the  play¬ ers  ILLUSTRATION  #12.)  A  spear  will  shoot  out,  and  the  door opener(s)or  any  others  standing  before  it  are  subject  to  be  struck. Determine  at  random,  if  need  be,  which  character  is  the  target, and  that  player  must  then  make  a  saving  throw  versus  magic  to avoid  taking  2-16  ( 2d8 )  hit  points  of  damage.  When  the  door  is closed  and  re-opened,  another  spear  will  fire.
13.  CHAMBER  OF  THREE  CHESTS:  When  the  party  enters  the crawlway  hidden  by  the  sphere  illusion  of  a  red  color,  they  will come  to  an  apparent  dead  end,  but  a  bit  of  examination  will  easily discover  (4  in  6)  a  secret  door.  The  character  opening  the  door will  be  precipitated  to  the  floor  10'  below  by  a  tilting  stone  at  the mouth  of  the  crawlway,  and  an  automatic  1-6  hit  points  damage sustained  (a  mere  annoyance,  but  if  erodes  the  strength  of  the party).  At  this  juncture  show  the  players  ILLUSTRATION  #13A. The  large  chests  are  affixed  firmly  to  the  floor;  the  1st  is  of  gold,  the 2nd  of  silver,  the  3rd  of  oak  bound  with  thick  bronze  bands.  Each  is about  4'  long,  2'  wide,  and  3'  high.  In  these  containers  are:
Gold:  (Plate  only  over  iron)  12  large  asps  (H.P.:  9  each;  AC  6; attack  as  3  hit  dice  monsters;  cause  1  h.p.  of  damage only  when  biting,  but  saves  versus  their  poison  are  at -2)  will  slither  out  and  attack  next  round.  They  are  fast (12"  move)  and  will  continue  biting  until  all  are  killed. (USE  GRAPHIC  #13B)
Silver:  (Plate  only  over  iron)  holds  a  ring  (protection  +1)  in  a clear  crystal  box  (worth  1000  g.p.).  When  this  box  is lifted  from  the  supposed  bottom  of  the  chest,  8  darts will  fire  upwards,  and  1-2  characters  (maximum  which can  be  in  the  line  of  fire)  will  take  1-4  hits  each  if  they are  exposed  to  the  path  of  these  missiles.  (Actually reaching  in  and  removing  the  case  is  exposure!)  Dam¬ age  is  1-6  hit  points  per  dart,  with  no  saving  throws  (USE GRAPHIC  #  JSC)
Wood:  When  the  lid  is  opened,  an  animated  skeleton  of  a  gi¬ ant  will  be  instantly  teleported  into  the  chest,  and  it  will always  strike  first.  The  thing  wields  2  (non-magical) scimitars,  and  it  attacks  twice/round  for  2-12  h.p.  of damage  per  hit.  The  skeleton  has  32  h.p.,  AC  2,  and attacks  as  a  1 0  hit  dice  monster.  All  edged  weapon  hits upon  it  cause  only  1  h.p.  of  damage,  but  blunt  ones score  normal  damage.  Magic  does  not  affect  this  mon¬ ster,  and  it  cannot  be  turned.  Holy  water  will  cause  1-4 hit  points  of  damage.  (USE  GRAPHIC  #13D)
14.  CHAPEL  OF  EVIL:  By  passing  through  the  illusionary  black sphere  the  party  will  have  crawled  along  the  small  tunnel  until reaching  the  end,  only  to  find  it  is  solid  stone,  it  requires  a  1  in 6  to  find  the  secret  door  at  the  passage  end,  no  matter  what the  race  of  the  character  examining  the  area,  and  no  form  of magic  will  detect  it,  save  the  gem  of  seeing.  Once  inside, they  will  see  what  is  obviously  some  form  of  temple  area  - there  are  scenes  of  normal  life  painted  on  the  walls,  but  the
people  have  rotting  flesh,  skeletal  hands,  worms  eating  them,  etc. Yet  there  are  also  depicted  various  religious  symbols  of  good  align¬ ment,  and  a  faint  aura  of  good  can  be  magically  detected.  What  a puzzle!  Could  the  demi-lich  actually  have  been  of  good  alignment? There  is  a  mosaic  path  leading  to  the  altar,  and  to  either  side  great wooden  pews  face  the  worship  area.  (All  of  these  benches  have hinged  seats.  The  back  pair  of  pews  have  4,000  s.p.  each  hidden therein,  the  next  pair  have  3,000  electrum  pieces  each,  the  next have  2,000  g.p.  each,  and  the  front  pair  have  gas  traps  -  a  cloud of  gas  will  fill  the  whole  chapel  in  2  rounds  after  opening  the  pew bottom,  and  all  in  the  place  will  lose  2-8  points  of  strength  for  48 hours!)  A  wooden  railing  divides  the  room,  and  south  of  it  is  the altar,  a  tiered  dais  with  a  wooden  chair  (nicely  carved  and  podded but  unremarkable),  2  large  brass  candelabra  holding  5  white candles  each,  and  in  each  corner  a  large  white  pottery  urn  stop¬ pered  with  a  brass  and  wood  plug.  A  human  skeleton  in  black chain  mail  (badly  rusted  and  torn)  points  to  area  B.  (Now  show your  players  ILLUSTRATION  #14.)
A.  Opalescent  Blue  Altar:  This  block  of  strange  material  glows with  an  inner  light.  (A  very  faint  evil  can  be  defected  2  in  6  per round  of  detection.)  If  the  thing  is  touched  by  living  matter  it will  send  a  lightning  bolt  40'  long  and  8'  wide  shooting  up  the aisle  -  base  40  hit  points  of  damage,  save  versus  magic  re¬ duces  the  hit  points  to  20.  After  this  bolt  streaks  forth,  the altar  turns  a  fiery  blue-red  and  if  it’s  touched  by  any  object  it will  explode  doing  base  60  hit  points  of  damage  to  all  crea¬ tures  within  a  30'  radius  (saving  throw  reduces  damage  by 50%).
B.  Archway  of  Glowing  Orange:  As  already  stated,  the  skel¬ eton  on  the  floor  of  the  chapel  room  is  outstretched  and  point¬ ing  to  the  arch.  (Show  your  players  GRAPHIC  #5,  and  ex¬ plain  that  none  of  the  stones  of  the  arch  glow,  but  that  the entranceway  is  filled  with  luminous  orange  vapors  of  an  ex¬ citing  hue.)  These  vivid  orange  mists  cannot  be  penetrated with  any  sort  of  vision  or  magic.  The  skeleton,  of  course,  mis¬ leads  the  party,  for  any  character  passing  through  the  portal will  enter  a  10'  x  10'  room  where  their  sex  and  alignment  are reversed  by  a  terrible  curse.  (Although  restoration  of  align¬ ment  and  sex  to  original  is  difficult,  the  curse  once  reversed will  not  alter  paladin-hood,  ranger  status,  etc.)  Re-entering the  archway  will  restore  original  alignment,  but  1-6  hit  points of  damage  will  be  sustained  in  so  doing.  Going  back  a  3rd time  will  reverse  sex  again,  but  the  individual  will  be  teleported as  arch  10A  does.  Only  wish  or  alter  reality  spell  will  re¬ store  both  alignment  and  sex.  However,  if  alignment  is  re¬ stored  by  entering  the  orange  portal,  a  remove  curse  spell will  then  restore  original  sex.  Prior  to  alignment  restoration, no  spells  other  than  those  stated  will  affect  the  cursed  char¬ acter.
C.  Careful  inspection  here  has  a  4  in  6  chance  of  noticing  a small  slot  with  a  letter  ©faintly  traced  above  it.  This  is  a  mov¬ ing  stone  block  described  below.  It  cannot  be  magically  de¬ tected,  nor  will  it  open  by  physical  or  magical  means  other than  the  method  given  in  15.
15.  STONE  GATE:  This  stone  is  only  2'  wide,  4'  high,  and  10'  thick  in  a wedge  shape.  It  is  impregnated  with  strong  anti-magics  which  prevent its  detection  or  removal  or  change  to  another  form  or  substance.  The slot  (C  above)  is  of  sufficient  size  to  accept  a  coin  or  a  flat  gem.  It  is  also just  right  for  insertion  of  a  magic  ring,  and  only  such  ah  item  will  actu¬ ally  trigger  the  mechanism  which  causes  the  block  to  sink  slowly  into the  floor  so  as  to  allow  entry  into  the  passage  beyond.  The  ring  (orany other  object  deposited  into  the  slot)  is  forever  lost,  as  the  sinking  stone crushes  all  to  pieces.  The  gate  opens  easily  from  the  other  (east)  side, and  no  special  item  is  required  to  trigger  its  opening  from  that  side.  The corridor  widens  to  10'  and  turns  southward  where  steps  lead  down steeply  to  a  corridor  west.  The  series  of  3  doors  in
5
Tomb  of  Horrors
the  corridor  are  easily  opened  on  any  roll  of  6  in  6. 2  in  6  (1  or  2) indicating  that  the  door  opener  falls  through  as  the  door  opens so  easily,  plunging  into  the  pit  (see  3  above  for  pit  details).  Of course,  If  the  door  is  not  violently  pushed  against,  it  swings  in¬ ward,  and  the  party  will  have  standard  chances  of  falling  in  when the  characters  leading  the  way  step  on  the  cover.  By  the  time the  3rd  door  and  pit  have  been  reached,  they  will  certainly  ex¬ pect  the  pit,  and  will  be  likely  to  ignore  it.  This  carelessness  will prevent  them  from  examining  the  pit  from  within,  as  a  wooden door  painted  to  look  like  stone  will  be  observed  5  in  6,  immedi¬ ately  felt  if  a  tactile  investigation  of  the  wails  are  made.  It  is  most probable  that  the  party  will  proceed  to  area  1 6.
16.  LOCKED  OAKEN  DOOR:  The  gate  is  heavily  bound  with  iron bands  and  there  are  several  locks  apparent.  If  a  character  lis¬ tens  with  an  ear  to  the  door,  he  or  she  will  hear  far-off  music  and happy  singing,  obviously  coming  from  somewhere  beyond.  The door  radiates  a  dim  magical  aura,  and  no  forcing  or  knock  spells will  open  it.  A  disintegrate  spell,  or  physically  chopping  it  to pieces,  provide  the  only  means  to  continue  past  it.  Once  the door  is  destroyed,  sounds  of  confusion  and  running  (away)  can be  heard  from  the  north  -  all  music  and  singing  has  ceased. There  is  a  faint  glow  (torchlight?)  northwards.  The  walls  of  the passage  are  of  smooth  white  alabaster,  and  the  floor  is  a  very smooth,  highly  polished  smoke  gray  marble.  The  destruction  of the  door  triggered  an  audible  glamour  spell  to  produce  the  noise heard.  The  tunnel  floor  is  a  counter-weighted  beam.  Its  overbal¬ ancing  point  is  the  3rd  square  from  the  door,  and  when  1  or more  characters  step  there  the  (floor  will  begin  to  tilt  downward from  the  door  north,  with  the  north  end  slowly  sinking.  (AT  THIS MOMENT  SHOW  YOUR  PLAYERS  GRAPHIC  #16.)  Quickly state  the  floor  is  beginning  to  slant  as  explained  above.  Begin counting  slowly  (as  per  2 above)  to  5.  All  characters  still  north  of the  doorway  at  the  conclusion  of  the  5  count  will  fall  and  begin sliding  downwards  to  the  north  at  1 0'/segment.  When  the  40' point  is  marked  each  will  take  1-6  h.p.  of  heat  damage,  2-12  h.p. at  50',  and  thereafter  they  are  plunged  into  a  pit  of  flames  and molten  lava  which  will  absolutely  snuff  them  out.  Retreat  from the  area  during  the  count  is  at  the  1 71 "  of  base  movement  rate per  count.
17.  MAGICAL  SECRET  DOOR:  This  entrance  to  the  remainder  of the  Tomb  is  along  the  stairway  which  leads  down.  It  can  be  found by  any  means,  but  nothing  will  enable  it  to  be  opened  until  the area  is  either  viewed  through  a  gem  of  seeing,  a  similar  spell  is cast,  ora  detect  magic  spell  is  used  to  pinpoint  the  magic  aura. When  the  magic  of  the  door  is  found,  it  will  require  a  dispel magic  or  remove  curse  spell  to  remove  the  guard  which  pre¬ vents  the  doorfrom  being  opened.  Once  accomplished,  the  se¬ cret  door  can  be  opened  easily  from  either  side.
18.  FALSE  CRYPT  PROTECTED  BY  FEAR  GAS:  Before  the  party can  enter  this  area,  they  must  descend  the  stairs  and  enter  the slightly  cloudy  west  passage.  The  tunnel  is  fear  gas  filled,  and unless  characters  announce  they  are  holding  their  breath  be¬ fore  entering  its  40'  length,  they  will  breathe  in  the  gas  -  save versus  poison  or  run  away  at  top  speed  for  2-8  turns.  Beyond the  first  1 0',  the  gas  becomes  thicker,  and  it  irritates  the  eyes,  so it  is  only  3  in  6  for  any  character  to  notice  the  south  door.  Once the  south  door  is  opened,  the  gas  dissipates.
The  False  Crypt:  The  steps  down  to  the  chamber  at  the  end  are filled  with  webs  which  can  only  be  removed  by  magical  fire  (burn¬ ing  hands,  a  flaming  sword,  etc.).  Any  character  trying  to  break through  them  will  become  hopelessly  entangled  and  can  not  get free  unless  magically  burned  free  or  wished  out.  A!  the  very  foot of  the  stairway  is  a  silver-inlaid  mace  which  will  begin  to  glow with  a  bright  golden  light  when  it  is  picked  up  by  any  character. Whenever  this  weapon  is  swung  at  the  pseudo-lich,  it  will  hit. The  pseudo-crypt  is  filled  with  rotting  and  decayed  furnishings which  were  once  most  costly,  and  upon  a  solid  gold
couch  (50,000  g.p.  value)  a  lich-like  figure  with  a  crown  on  its head  will  be  slowly  rising  (and  throwing  up  its  hands  in  apparent fear  if  the  mace  is  being  carried).  A  booming  voice  from  the  whole of  the  chamber  will  demand:  «WHO  DARES  TO  DISTURB  THE  REST OF  ACERERAK?  IT  IS  YOUR  DEATH  WHICH  YOU  HAVE  FOUND. »  (Af¬ ter  this  announcement  you  should  show  your  players  GRAPHIC #18.)  The  purported  lich  is  actually  a  magically-prepared  zom¬ bie  with  spells  upon  him  which  give  the  following  stats:  AC  -4; move  base  12”;  H.P.:  32;  attacks  1/round  as  a  6  hit  dice  monster for  3-1 0  h.p.  damage;  and  anti-magic  charms  will  absorb  12  lev¬ els  of  spells  cast  before  any  will  take  effect  (any  spell  partially absorbed  is  spoiled).  Between  strikes  the  zombie  will  gesture magically  with  its  hands  as  if  readying  a  spell.  If  it  is  struck  by  the golden  mace  it  will  make  a  roaring  bellow  (magic  mouth  spell), and  the  weapon  will  obviously  stagger  it  (roll  dice  and  shake your  head).  The  3rd  time  it  is  struck  by  the  gold  mace  the  zom¬ bie  will  instantly  wither  and  disappear  in  a  puff  of  dust,  the  mace will  shatter,  and  at  this  moment  the  room  will  start  to  shake  and stones  will  begin  to  come  down  from  the  ceiling.  OBVIOUSLY THE  PLACE  IS  BEGINNING  TO  COLLAPSE,  but  take  yourtime detailing  the  rumblings,  tremors,  grinding  noises,  falling  hunks of  celling,  and  so  forth;  and  if  players  inquire  they  can  see  a  jade coffer,  the  dead  monster’s  fallen  crown,  and  a  fine  leather  bag  (a give-away  -  it  isn’t  rotten)  within  easy  reach.  All  other  items  are iron,  locked,  etc.  NOW  BEGIN  COUNTING  SLOWLY  TO  10, and  it  is  odds  on  that  there  will  be  a  stampede  up  the  stairs  to  get away!  A  programmed  illusion  from  the  pseudo-crypt  will  give the  full  effects  of  a  cave-in,  and  actual  dust  will  billow  up  the stairs,  while  bits  of  stone  begin  to  fall  in  the  east-west  tunnel  and then  the  north-south  tunnel  and  stairs  reached  from  the  pit.  If the  party  runs  out,  ask  them  if  they  thought  it  was  too  hard  a dungeon  ...
The  jade  coffer  is  worth  5,000  g.p.  and  contains  6  healing  po¬ tions.  The  crown  is  begemmed  and  worth  25,000  g.p.  The  small sack  holds  276  p.p.,  29  base  10  g.p.  gems,  a  scroll  of  7  magic- user  spells  (pretend  to  roll,  but  they  are  all  1st  and  2nd  level), and  a  map  showing  a  location  several  hundred  miles  away  which supposedly  has  a  rich  treasure  (it  is  a  fake,  naturally).  If  this  doesn’t make  them  suspicious  enough  to  take  another  run  through  to check  things  out,  put  the  module  away  for  use  when  you  have  a different  group  (or  the  same  ones)  inquiring  about  one  of  the key  references  in  the  Legend.  Note  that  something  so  simple as  a  commune  spell  will  reveal  that  the  demi-lich  has  not  been destroyed.  In  any  event,  Acererak  will  see  to  the  righting  of  things eventually.  The  only  treasure  left  in  the  pseudo-crypt  is  the  gold couch.
19.  LABORATORY  AND  MUMMY  PREPARATION  ROOM:  Although there  is  only  1  item  of  eventual  use  within  this  totally  plain  and cluttered  place,  the  volume  of  items  within  it  is  calculated  to  waste time  for  the  players.  All  of  the  walls  are  lined  with  shelves,  and upon  these  are  old  jars  filled  with  dust  and  impotent  ingredients of  all  sorts.  There  is  a  large  desk  and  stool,  2  workbenches,  and 2  mummy  preparation  tables.  Clay  pots  and  urns  on  these  tables and  the  floor  obviously  once  contained  unguents,  ointments, oils,  perfumes,  etc.  Linen  wrappings  are  in  rolls  or  strewn  about. Dried  herbs  of  unidentifiable  nature,  bones,  skulls  and  the  like litter  the  work  benches.  In  the  south  are  3  vats  of  about  7'  diam¬ eter  and  4'  depth  which  contain  murky  liquids,  (SHOW  THE PLAYERS  GRAPHIC  #19.)  The  1st  holds  3'  of  dirty  water.  The 2nd  contains  a  slow-acting  acid  which  will  cause  2-5  h.p.  of  dam¬ age  the  round  after  it  comes  in  substantial  (Immersed  arm, splashed  on,  etc.)  contact  with  flesh  -  minor  contact  will  cause only  a  mild  itch;  at  the  bottom  of  this  vat  is  one-half  of  a  golden key.  The  3rd  vat  contains  a  gray  ochre  jelly  (H.P:  48;  4-16  h.p,  of damage  due  to  its  huge  size)  with  the  other  half  of  the  gold  key beneath  it.  The  vats  are  affixed  to  the  floor  and  too  heavy  to move.  The  key  parts  are  magical  and  will  not  be  harmed  by  any¬ thing,  and  if  the  parts  are  joined  together  they  form  one
6
Tomb  of  Horrors
solid  key,  hereafter  called  the  FIRST  KEY.  As  the  acid  will  harm even  magical  weapons,  the  players  will  have  to  figure  some  way to  neutralize  or  drain  off  the  contents  of  the  2nd  vat,  as  a  reach- in-and-grope-for-it  technique  has  a  1%  cumulative  chance  per round  of  being  successful.
20.  HUGE  PIT  FILLED  WITH  200  SPIKES:  (SHOW  GRAPHIC #20.)  This  10’  deep,  open  pit  completely  fills  the  passageway and  extends  so  as  to  make  jumping  across  it  totally  impossible for  most  creatures.  Ergo,  the  pit  must  be  crossed  by  climbing down  and  walking  across  it,  then  climbing  up  the  other  side. Simple!  Wrong  -  any  footstep  upon  the  last  3'  (east  portion)  of the  pit  will  cause  a  volley  of  spikes  to  be  discharged  upwards, and  each  person  in  the  pit  or  leaning  over  the  edge  will  be  struck by  2-5  spikes,  each  hit  causing  1-6  hit  points  of  damage,  no saving  throw.  Some  magical  means  must  be  used  to  get  across, for  new  spikes  will  come  up  where  the  ones  which  were  dis¬ charged  came  from.
2 1 .  THE  AGITATED  CHAMBER:  The  secret  door  to  this  place  is  a normal  sort,  so  it  can  be  found  without  undue  difficulty.  It  ap¬ pears  to  be  filled  with  funerary  offerings  and  furniture.  (SHOW GRAPHIC  #21).  There  are  4  rotting  sofas,  several  throne-like chairs,  vases,  and  urns  which  are  denied,  chipped  and  broken, stands,  small  tables,  and  braziers,  all  jumbled  together,  Only  the rather  plain  tapestries  hanging  upon  the  east  and  west  walls appear  to  nave  been  spared  a  rough  looting.  There  are  6  locked trunks  and  24  locked  coffers  amidst  the  general  havoc.  The  heavy trunks  are  empty,  but  the  small  coffers  hold  either  1-3  angry  asps (H.P.:  4  each;  AC  6;  attack  as  2  hit  dice  monsters;  normal  poi¬ son  +  1  h.p.  damage  for  the  bite)  if  1-3  on  c/6  is  rolled,  8-80  p.p. if  4-5  on  d6  is  rolled,  or2-8  base  10  g.p,  gems  if  6  is  rolled.  The weight  of  the  players  upon  the  balanced  floor  will  have  set  a mechanism  into  motion,  and  each  round  they  remain  in  the  place a  d6  must  be  rolled.  Any  odd  number  resulting  from  a  roll  means that  on  the  next  turn  the  floor  of  the  room  will  jump  and  buck  up and  down  violently.  Each  player  must  be  rolled  for,  with  a  2  in  6 chance  to  fall  and  sustain  1  hit  point  of  damage  from  abrasions and  contusions.
The  tapestries,  which  appear  to  feature  weed-grown  rocks  and green  and  golden  tan  scenes  of  undersea  life,  are  specially  anti¬ magic  treated  creations  of  green  slime  and  brown  mold.  If  they are  torn,  they  instantly  turn  into  green  slime  and  cover  each  and every  player  character/character  standing  before  them,  i.e.  each covers  a  20'  long  by  10'  deep  area  of  floor  when  it  falls.  Covered characters  are  turned  to  green  slime  and  gone,  with  no  recourse possible  due  to  the  amount  of  slime.  Note  that  the  tapestries  can be  handled  normally,  just  not  yanked  so  as  to  tear  them  (and they  are  well  affixed  at  the  top);  however,  if  any  character  is  hold¬ ing  one  when  the  room  becomes  agitated,  it  is  75%  probable that  the  jerking  motion  will  tear  the  thing.  If  these  hangings  are subjected  to  burning  they  instantly  turn  to  brown  mold  and  drain 4-32  ( 4d8 )  h.p.  of  heat  from  all  characters  within  5'  of  the  mold (and  it  gets  worse  from  there  ...).  Note  the  secret  door  behind the  tapestry  on  the  west  wall.
22.  THE  CAVERN  OF  GOLD  AND  SILVER  MISTS:  As  a  private joke,  Acererak  has  caused  a  beautiful  and  good  aligned  siren to  be  placed  into  this  cavern  under  an  enchantment.  She  must be  asked  to  come  out  to  break  the  spell,  and  she  can  give  no clues  as  to  the  nature  of  her  durance.  (DISPLAY  GRAPHIC  #22.)
The  mists  are  silvery  and  shot  through  with  delicate  streamers of  golden  color.  Vision  extends  only  6'.  There  is  a  dim  aura  of good  if  detected  for.  Those  who  step  into  the  mist  must  save versus  poison  or  become  idiots  until  they  can  breath  the  clean air  above  ground  under  the  warm  sun.  At  the  center  of  the  cav¬ ern  is  a  beautiful  grotto  in  which  dwells  the  siren.  If  she  is  asked to  come  with  the  party,  she  will  do  so,  stay  with  them  through the  adventure,  and  thereafter  be  their  friend  for  life.  She  has the  following  statistics:  AC  5;  Move  127/24";  Hit
Dice  4;  H.P:  20;  Magic  Resistance  20%;  High  intelligence;  and spell  powers  as  follows:  charm  person  (by  song)  at  +2,  all  within 3",  invisibility,  suggestion,  polymorph  self- each  usable  once per  day.  Any  creature  whom  the  siren  touches  in  anger  must save  versus  poison  or  become  an  idiot  (2  intelligence)  for  5-20 turns.  She  has  the  power  to  cure  idiocy  so  caused  (or  that  of  the mists)  by  touch  also.  There  are  2  sacks  with  the  siren,  a  large one,  and  a  small  one,  both  of  which  will  disappear  if  she  is  asked to  accompany  the  party.  If  either  is  touched  the  siren  and  the other  sack  disappear.  These  sacks  are:
Large  Sack:  This  bag  contains  50  pieces  each  of  copper,  sil¬ ver,  electrum,  gold  and  platinum.  It  appears  to be  a  normal  sack,  but  it  radiates  magic  if  it  is checked,  for  it  is  a  small  bag  of  holding  (filled weight  5  pounds,  250  pound  weight  limit  inside, 30  cubic  feet  volume  capacity).
Small  Sack:  To  determine  the  contents  of  the  small  sack roll  a  dIO:
1-2  filled  with  wool
3-4  5  pieces  of  jewelry
5-6  1-6  potions  of  extra-healing
7  1-6  scrolls
8  4-48  base  100  g.p.  gems
9  bracers  of  defense,  AC  6
0  ring  of  feather  falling
It  is  not  possible  to  gain  both  the  large  and  the  small  sacks.  If  a character  or  characters  state  they  will  grab  them  simultaneously, dice  to  see  which  is  touched  a  fraction  of  a  second  sooner.  The other  disappears  -  along  with  the  siren  -  forever.  The  siren  will converse  in  a  friendly  fashion  only,  asking  how  characters  are and  iftheyfind  the  going  hard  IntheTomb.  She  will  answer  any direct  questions  with  an  evasive  reply:  «1  cannot  say,»  «That  is  un¬ known  to  me,o  «possil\y,»  etc.  until  she  is  freed.  She  knows  noth¬ ing  of  the  Tomb  in  any  event.
23.  FALSE/TRUE  DOOR:  When  the  party  reaches  this  point and  opens  the  door,  it  is  probable  that  they  will  believe  it  to  be nothing  more  than  a  false  door,  but  the  seemingly  blank  wall of  solid  stone  behind  the  false  door  hides  a  secret  door.  Note that  just  beyond  the  secret  door  is  a  secret  trap  door  in  the corridor  floor.  This  opens  to  a  steep  flight  of  narrow  stairs which  spiral  down  to  a  5'  wide  passageway  which  emerges at  area  24.
A.  The  most  likely  place  that  will  be  found,  however,  is  the passage  full  of  sleep  gas  which  is  reached  by  the  east door.  When  the  doors  to  the  north  (which  open  to  the sleep  gas  area)  are  opened,  everyone  in  that  passage  will instantly  collapse  In  slumber  for  2-8  turns.  Each  turn  of slumber  roll  a  d4,  and  if  a  4  results,  a  stone  Juggernaut (rather  like  a  steam  roller)  comes  out  of  the  20”x20'  room to  the  north  and  rolls  1-6  spaces  (1 0'-60')  south  then  west as  determined  by  a  roll  of  d6  -  Everything  it  rolls  over  is squashed  to  a  pulp.  There  is  no  appeal.  (If  the  party  is  in this  way  destroyed,  show  them  GRAPHIC  #23)
24.  ADAMANTITE  DOOR:  Although  it  is  marked  secret,  it  is very  evident;  the  marking  is  simply  to  make  certain  that  its actual  nature  is  known.  It  has  permanent  anti-magics  on  it, and  there  is  no  magical  or  physical  way  of  forcing  entry.  There are  3  slots  in  the  door  at  about  waist  height.  If  3  sword  blades are  shoved  simultaneously  into  the  slots,  the  T  thick  panel will  swing  open.  THIS  IS  A  ONE  WAY  DOOR  WHICH  CAN¬ NOT  BE  PREVENTED  FROM  CLOSING  IN  5  ROUNDS!
25.  THE  PILLARED  THRONE  ROOM:  There  are  scores  of massive  columns  in  the  huge  chamber,  and  each  of  these  3' diameter  pillars  radiates  magic  when  detected  for.  Any  charac¬ ter  who  touches  a  pillarwith  or  without  intent  will  uncontrollably float  upwards  (levitation)  until  he  or  she  bounces  gently  around on  the  ceiling  just  as  a  child’s  helium  balloon.  To  stop  this
7
Tomb  of  Horrors
effect  a  dispel  magic  or  remove  curse  spell  must  be  placed upon  each  such  individual,  (Use  GRAPHIC  #25to  display  this 110' square,  30'  high  room.)  There  seems  to  be  a  gentle  breeze in  the  room,  for  any  character  floating  amongst  the  many-hued columns  will  begin  drifting  northeastwards  or  northwestwards (towards  locations  A  or  B).  From  the  entry  the  observant  char¬ acter  will  be  able  to  observe  part  of  the  dais  (D)  or  room  27,  if  a bullseye  lantern  is  employed.
A.  Devil  Face:  (ILLUSTRATION  #6.)  About  24'  above  the  floor  is a  mosaic  of  a  green  devil  which  appears  to  be  exactly  the  same as  that  first  encountered  in  the  enhance  hall  to  the  Tomb.  Any creature  coming  within  3'  of  its  gaping  jaw  will  be  sucked  in  and instantly  teleported  to  be  «spat  out»  nude  from  location  6,  while all  non-living  matter  with  the  character  goes  to  location  33.
B.  Devil  Face:  This  is  identical  to  A.  above,  but  it  is  tinged  with  a bluish  color  over  the  green  and  any  character  drawn  into  this mouth  opening  is  teleported  into  location  27 A  (q.v.).
C.  Charred  Remains:  Cinders,  ashes,  charred  bones  and  skulls, the  crisped  and  blackened  remains  of  clothing  and  gear,  arms and  armor -a  thoroughly  awful  and  frightening  sight -encircle a  huge,  glowing  orange  gem.  (DISPLAY  ILLUSTRATION  #25C) If  evil/magic  is/are  detected  for,  the  gem  will  send  out  pulses  of wickedness  and  a  strong  aura  of  dweomer  -  so  strong  that  the detecting  character  will  get  the  vague  feeling  that  the  magic  is wish  connected.  The  gem  is  a  cursed  wish  magic  item,  and  no matter  what  is  desired  by  the  character  daring  to  touch  it  and wish,  a  reverse  or  perversion  will  bring  doom  to  that  character and  all  named  in  the  wish.  Immediately  after  causing  the  evil wish  to  transpire,  the  gem  begins  to  pulse  with  reddish  lights, growing  progressively  stronger,  brighter  and  hotter.  Count  to 10  as  usual.  The  stone  then  explodes,  absolutely  killing  any character  within  a  15'  radius  with  a  wave  of  searing  radiations and  flames.  The  gem  remains  as  a  noisome  mass  of  stinking purplish  mold  which  bubbles  and  chuckles.  In  1  week  the  mass will  reform  as  a  glowing  orange  gem...
D.  Ebony  Dais  and  Silver  Throne:  (USE  GRAPHIC  #25D)  Con¬ trasting  with  the  pastel  colors  of  the  floor  and  pillars  of  the  hall  is the  stark  blackness  of  the  huge  dais  atop  which  rests  an  obsid¬ ian  throne  inlaid  with  silver  and  ivory  skulls.  Upon  the  throne rest  a  crown  and  a  scepter,  both  of  which  will  give  off  an  aura of  magic.  The  crown  of  gold  negates  the  pillars’  levitation  ef¬ fects  and  enables  the  wearer  to  see  within  the  hall  as  if  he  or she  were  in  normal  daylight,  but  outside  this  place  the  wearer  is blind!  Furthermore,  the  wearer  knows  that  the  crown  can  be removed  only  by  touching  the  scepter  to  its  lop.  The  scepter  is of  electrum,  with  a  gold  ball  at  one  end  and  a  silver  knob  at  the other.  If  the  silver  end  is  touched  to  the  crown,  the  wearer  is instantly  snuffed  out,  turning  to  a  fetid  powder  which  cannot  be brought  back  to  life  no  matter  what  (wishes  notwithstanding). If  the  golden  knob  is  used  upon  the  crown,  the  wearer  can  lift  it from  his  or  her  head.  Examination  of  the  throne  will  reveal  a small  replica  of  the  crown  inlaid  in  silver  upon  the  lower  front pane!  of  the  seat.  If  the  silver  end  of  the  scepter  is  applied  to  this inlay,  the  throne  sinks  and  reveals  a  5'  wide  passageway.
Each  of  these  items  is  obviously  valuable  (25,000  g.p.  for  the crown,  12,500  g.p.  for  the  scepter),  but  both  are  cursed,  and  if they  are  removed  from  the  Tomb  the  possessorof  eitherwill  be visited  by  a  demon  (type  I)  sent  to  reclaim  the  item  and  return  it to  the  throne  room  -  2  such  demons  if  a  single  character  has both.
26.  SMALL  ROOM  WITH  A  DOOR  OF  ELECTRIC  BLUE:  The door  actually  shimmers  with  a  taint  blue  light  when  observed  from within  1 0'  or  so.  When  the  door  is  touched,  this  gleaming  grows bright.  A  brass  pull  beckons  to  be  used,  and  the  door  will open  easily.  Inside  the  western  room  there  is  only  dust.
The  eastern  room  is  another  matter.  If  this  door  is  opened,  the characters  will  see  a  low  stone  table  upon  which  rests  a  large wooden  sarcophagus.  Various  broken  and  looted  chests,  urns, and  coffers  are  scattered  about.  Inside  the  sarcophagus  are  the parts  at  a  mummy  (notan  undead,  exactly,  for  at  this  time  it  is  the mummified  remains  of  a  human)  with  wrappings  partially  undone and  tattered,  and  a  huge  amethyst  just  barely  visible  between the  wrappings  covering  the  head.  This  5,000  g.p.  gem  has  an evil  magic  placed  upon  it,  and  if  it  is  removed  from  the  eyesocket the  remains  become  a  true  mummy  with  the  following  specs: H.R:  39;  2  attacks/round  due  to  haste:  2-13  h,  p.  damage;  re¬ sist  fire  upon  the  wrappings  make  them  impervious  to  normal flames,  and  the  creature  wears  a  ring  of  fire  resistance.
27.  THE  PORTAL  OF  SCINTILLATING  VIOLET:  This  appears  to be  another  small  10'  x  10'  room  much  like  the  2  numbered  26. When  the  door  is  touched  a  faint  lilac  color  which  glowed  faintly from  a  distance  will  shine  forth  a  bright  and  coruscating  purple with  tinges  of  sickly  green.  If  the  door  is  pulled  open,  the  charac¬ ters  will  see  a  bare  chamber,  with  a  small  door  before  them  on the  north  wall,  and  pairs  of  swords  crossed  behind  shields  hung upon  the  walls.  There  are  3  such  sets  on  each  of  the  walls  to either  hand,  and  2  sets  on  the  north  wall,  1  flanking  each  side  of the  door.  If  the  threshold  is  crossed  by  any  creature,  1  set  will  fly off  the  wall  and  attack  the  individual  so  doing.  The  2  swords  will both  attack  at  the  beginning  and  the  end  of  each  round,  striking as  if  they  were  wielded  by  a  1st  level  fighter,  but  being  +1  on both  «to  hit»  and  damage.  This  trio  will  so  attack  until  they  are destroyed  or  the  one  who  violated  their  area  is  dead.  Each  item is  AC  3  and  requires  11  h.p.  of  damage  to  destroy;  all  hits  will  be taken  by  the  shield  first,  as  it  always  interposes  itself.  (SHOW GRAPHIC  #27.)  Surviving  weapons  and  shields  return  to  their former  positions  after  the  offender  is  hacked  to  pieces.  The  fol¬ lowing  spells  will  affect  these  items,  and  only  the  following  spells: repulsion  sends  all  3  back  to  their  original  position:  heat  metal (or  a  rod  of  cancellation)  will  cause  1  to  fall  to  pieces;  trans¬ mute  metal  to  wood  will  cause  2  to  fall  to  the  ground  as  mo¬ tionless  hunks  of  timber;  disintegrate  will  destroy  any  and  all  of a  set;  enchant  weapon  will  cause  a  sword  to  become  a  plain iron  weapon.  Worse  still,  if  the  threshold  is  crossed  a  2nd  time, still  another  pair  of  blades  and  a  shield  will  attack,  and  each  set will  attack  at  1  level  better  than  the  last  set  (2nd,  3rd,  4th,  etc.,  all the  way  to  8th,.  each  will  have  1  greater  plus  (the  1st  are  +1 ,  the 2nd  +2,  etc.  all  the  way  to  +8  for  the  8th  set),  each  set  Is  1  armor class  better  (set  2  is  AC  2,  set  3  is  AC  1 ,  set  4  Is  AC  0,  etc.,  all the  way  to  the  8th  which  is  AC  -4),  and  each  set  is  1  hit  point harder  to  destroy  (the  2nd  has  12  h.p.  each,  the  3rd  has  13  h.p. each,  etc.,  all  the  way  to  the  8th  which  has  1 8  hit  points  per  item). Only  after  all  sets  are  destroyed  is  it  possible  to  enter  the  room.
A.  The  Chamber  of  Hopelessness:  Any  creature  unfortunate enough  to  be  teleported  here  from  area  25B  is  doomed,  for theirfate  is  clearly  slated  in  glowing  letters  magically  written on  the  north  wail  of  the  place:
“YOU  WHO  DARED  TO  VIOLATE  MY  TOMB  NOW  PAY  THE  PRICE. STAY  HERE  AND  DIE  SLOWLY  OF  STARVATION,  OR  OPEN  AND ENTERTHE  D00RT0Y0URS0UTH  WHERECERTAIN  BUT  QUICK DEATH  AWAITS  -  WHICHEVER  YOU  CHOOSE,  KNOW  THAT  I, ACERERAK  THE  ETERNAL,  WATCH  AND  SCOFF  AT  YOUR  PUNY EFFORTS  AND  ENJOY  YOUR  DEATH,  HEROES. »
A  small  fountain  of  water  spills  into  a  wall  basin  and  drains away  through  side  holes,  so  there  is  always  plenty  to  drink.  (It is  impossible  to  flood  the  place,  for  there  are  hundreds  of  small drain  holes  in  the  walls  and  floor.)  (DISPLAY  ILLUSTRA¬ TION  #27A)  There  are  numerous  skeletons  here,
8
Tomb  of  Horrors
rotting  equipment,  and  30-300  each  of  s.p.,  e.p.,  g.p.,  and  p.p, hurled  about.  Crushed  gems  and  broken  magic  items  are  lit¬ tered  about  —  the  work  of  insane  victims  and  attacking  swords. (Careful  searching  will  find  2-20  uncrushed  gems  of  1 0  g.p.  base value,  1  unused  potion  of  diminuation,  and  a  +1  flail.)  If  the door  to  the  south  is  opened  from  this  side,  all  of  the  swords  and shields  swoop  from  the  walls  to  attack,  but  they  will  cease  as soon  as  the  character(s)  retreats  into  the  chamber  to  the  north.
28.  THE  WONDROUS  FOYER:  The  narrow  passage  behind  the throne  leads  to  a  landing  and  steps  which  funnel  out  to  the  south as  they  ascend.  The  6  steps  are  made  of  onyx,  pink  marble, lapis,  black  marble,  serpentine  (golden)  and  malachite.  The  walls of  the  chamber  are  copper  (untarnished  and  gleaming)  panels set  between  rare  woods  inlaid  with  ivory.  The  ceiling  is  silver, formed  so  as  to  reflect  and  multiply  light  within  the  place.  (USE GRAPHIC  #26)  Upon  the  4th  step  is  a  large,  cylindrical  key  of bronze  (the  SECOND  KEY)  for  all  to  behold.  It  has  an  antipa¬ thy  spell  cast  upon  it,  and  any  creature  touching  it  must  save versus  magic  at  -2  (due  to  the  strength  of  the  dweomer).  Those who  fail  the  throw  will  never  touch  the  key  or  allow  it  within  2'  of their  person  under  any  circumstances.  At  the  head  of  the  steps are  a  pair  of  huge  doors,  and  the  key  found  upon  the  stair  ap¬ pears  to  fit  these  valves.
29.  THE  VALVES  OF  MITHRIL:  These  doors  are  14'  wide  and  28' tall.  They  are  made  of  solid  mithril,  3'  thick,  and  impregnated with  great  magicks  in  order  to  make  them  absolutely  spell  and magic  proof.  Where  these  valves  meet,  at  about  waist  height,  is a  cup-like  depression,  a  hemispherical  concavity,  with  a  central hole.  The  latter  appears  to  be  the  keyhole  for  the  SECOND  KEY, but  if  this  is  inserted,  the  character  so  doing  will  receive  1-10 points  of  electrical  damage,  while  the  FIRST  KEY  will  cause double  that  amount  of  damage  to  any  so  foolish  as  to  insert  it! The  real  key  to  these  great  gates  is  the  scepter  from  25D.  If  the gold  ball  is  inserted  into  the  depression,  the  mithril  valves  will swing  silently  open.  If  the  silver  sphere  is  touched  to  the  hemi¬ spherical  cup  the  holder  of  the  instrument  will  be  teleported  in¬ stantly  to  be  spat  out  of  the  devil’s  mouth  at  6,  nude,  while  all non-living  materials  with  him  or  her  go  to  area  33,  and  the  crown and  scepter  flash  back  to  the  throne.  If  the  door  is  attacked  by force  it  will  not  budge,  but  if  it  is  scratched  or  nicked  it  will  show red  and  if  cut  by  a  sharp  weapon  it  will  begin  to  gush  forth  blood -  the  blood  of  all  those  who  have  died  within  the  area  of  the Tomb!  The  red  flow  will  cascade  down  the  steps  and  fill  the  area to  the  top  of  the  1st  step  in  6  rounds,  and  each  found  thereafter it  will  rise  higher  by  1  step.  In  20  rounds  it  will  completely  fill  the foyer  to  the  ceiling.
the  area  ot  the  throne  will  be  slain  unless  they  save  versus poison  at  -4.
30.  THE  FALSE  TREASURE  ROOM:  This  imposing  chamber  has a  silvered  ceiling,  just  as  the  foyer  has,  so  it  is  bright.  The  walls are  of  ivory  with  gold  inlaid.  The  floor  is  polished  (but  common) agate.  In  each  corner  hulks  a  9'  tall  statue  of  black  iron.  That  to the  northeast  stands  with  a  saw-toothed  two-handed  sword raised  to  strike;  that  to  the  northwest  a  huge,  spike-ended  mace; to  the  southeast  the  sculpture  readies  a  wickedly  spiked  morn¬ ing  star,  and  the  one  in  the  southwest  has  a  voulge.  Each  has  a magical  aura,  but  they  are  merely  hunks  of  metal;  they  do  noth¬ ing.  Each  has  an  evil  aura  as  well,  and  the  visage  of  each  of these  iron  statues  is  most  fearsome  and  terrifying.  The  room itself  is  lined  with  lead  and  has  anti-magical  properties,  so  no spells  will  work  within  the  room,  and  no  magical  properties  of items  of  any  sort  will  properly  function  except  to  detect  auras such  as  magic  or  evil.  (DISPLAY  GRAPHIC  #30)
A.  Bronze  Urn:  This  gold  filigreed  container  is  very  large,  and  a thin  stream  of  smoke  issues  from  a  tiny  vent  in  its  brass  stop¬ per  which  is  sealed  shut  with  gold  fill.  This  gold  must  be  pried out  to  open  the  urn.  If  the  stopper  is  removed,  an  efreet  will come  forth.  If  the  urn  has  been  battered,  knocked  about, shaken,  overturned,  etc.,  the  creature  will  be  in  a  fury  and  at¬ tack.  Otherwise,  it  will  perform  3  services  for  the  party  and then  depart.
B.  Granite  Sarcophagus:  The  huge  outer  shell  has  the  glyphs spelling  ACERERAK  on  the  lid  in  platinum  (insets  equal  to  100 coins  which  can  be  pried  out).  The  far  end  of  the  thing  is  stove in  and  shattered.  Inside  can  be  seen  bits  of  a  wooden  inner shell,  a  few  bones,  destroyed  jewelry  (stones  pried  out),  torn bits  of  robes  and  windings,  dust,  and  a  broken  staff  of  the magi  (evident  from  the  runes  upon  it).  A  shattered  skull  will roll  out  if  the  contents  are  poked  around.  (Why,  the  demi-llch has  long  been  destroyed,  but  his  magical  traps  somehow  sur¬ vived!)
C.  Iron  Chests:  Each  of  these  massive  iron  boxes  is  set  into  the stone  and  has  triple  locks  set  with  poison  needle  traps.  Nei¬ ther  can  possibly  be  moved,  and  both  show  marks  of  prying, battering,  etc.  The  eastern  chest  holds  10,  000  gems  which will  appear  to  be  of  not  less  than  base  50  g.p.  value  each,  no matter  how  they  are  tested  in  the  dungeon.  Each  is  actually  a 1  g.p.  quartz  gem.  The  other  contains  10,000  copper  pieces magicked  to  appear  as  platinum  until  they  are  removed  to  a distance  of  13  miles  from  the  Tomb,  when  their  true  nature becomes  evident,
A  cure  critical  wounds  applied  to  the  valve  will  staunch  the flow  of  blood,  as  will  a  heal,  2  cure  serious  wounds,  or  4  cure light  wounds  spells.  If  magic  is  used  against  the  blood,  only  the following  spells  will  have  any  effect:
D.  It  will  require  3  persons  of  1 6  or  better  strength  to  move  any of  the  iron  statues.  This  one  hides  a  ring  pull  which  will  raise  a small  plug  of  stone  and  enable  the  party  to  enter  a  small  chute which  takes  them  10'  down  to  the  corridor  to  the  west.
Spell
cone  of  cold create  water disintegrate levitate
polymorph purify  water
raise  dead/ resurrection
Results
freezes  blood  and  flow  for  3  rounds turns  blood  to  normal  water destroys  all  blood
coagulates  the  blood  and  moves  it  upwards  to
become  a  huge  red  ochre  jelly
creates  3-12  wights  which  attack
turns  all  blood  to  a  gas  which  weakens  all  in  the
area  to  3  strength  for  1  day
either  spell  destroys  the  blood  and  will  bring  a
shade  to  stand  on  the  top  stair  and  bless  all  the
party  so  that  they  regain  up  to  1 0  lost  hit  points
each  and  are  completely  refreshed
Fire  of  any  sort,  magical  or  otherwise,  turns  the  blood  to  a  poison gas  which  is  absolutely  fatal,  and  all  characters  in  the  foyer  area are  dead,  with  no  saving  throw,  while  any  in  the  5'  passage  to
31.  The  2  one-way  doors  to  the  north  are  actually  a  form  of  phase doorwhich  enable  characters  approaching  from  the  north  to  go through  corridors  which  are  not  actually  existing  in  the  normal world.  No  amount  of  trying  can  make  it  possible  to  find  these passages  from  the  south  —  be  it  passwall,  wish,  or  whatever. Opening  either  of  these  doors,  or  the  one  to  the  east  from  the  far side,  causes  a  covered  pit  to  come  into  phase  in  the  area  it  is shown.  This  pit  is  otherwise  exactly  the  same  as  others  in  the place.
32.  SECRET  DOOR:  The  portal  cannot  be  detected  by  any  magic means,  but  careful  inspection  will  discover  that  the  wall  at this  location  has  a  small  opening  that  is  metal-lined  —  obvi¬ ously  a  keyhole!  Any  attempt  to  force  the  door  open  by  physi¬ cal  or  magical  means  will  be  useless.  If  the  FIRST  (gold  key from  1 9)  KEY  is  inserted,  the  door  will  sink  into  the  floor,  a  stone sheathed  adamantite  slab  of  tremendous  thickness.  There
9
Tomb  of  Horrors
can  be  no  real  doubt  that  the  end  of  the  adventure  —  one  way  or another  —  is  near.
33.  THE  CRYPT  OF  ACERERAK  THE  DEMI-LICH:  The  smallish 1 0'x20'  burial  vault  has  an  arched  celling  with  a  25'  peak.  There is  absolutely  nothing  in  the  room,  although  there  is  a  small  de¬ pression  a  few  inches  deep  and  about  2'  square  in  the  center  of the  floor.  Careful  inspection  will  discovers  small  hole  in  the  middle or  this  depression  —  another  keyhole!  If  the  FIRST  KEY  is  in¬ serted  herein,  the  individual  doing  so  is  blown  upwards  by  the force  of  the  resulting  explosion  of  the  key,  and  5-30  ( 5d6 )  h.p.  of damage  will  be  sustained  by  that  individual  only.  The  SECOND KEY  (from  28)  will  fit  within  the  hole  and  nothing  untoward  will occur.  In  fact,  nothing  whatsoever  will  happen  until  it  is  turned  3 times  to  the  right  in  succession.  Immediately  when  this  is  done  a trembling  will  be  felt,  and  the  center  of  the  south  1 5'  feet  of  the crypt  floor  will  peak.  (AT  THIS  MOMENT  BEGIN  A  COUNT  TO 5.  ANY  CHARACTER  UPON  THE  SOUTH  1 5'  OF  THE  FLOOR AT  THE  END  OF  THE  COUNT  HAS  RISEN  UPWARDS  WITH THE  ASCENDING  VAULT  AND  HAS  BEEN  SQUASHED  TO JELLY  AGAINST  THE  ARCHED  DOOR).  The  south  15'  of  the crypt  now  is  filled  with  a  mithril  vault.  There  is  a  door  in  the  center of  the  device,  with  an  inset  ring.  A  hard  pull  will  swing  open  a thick  door.  (DISPLAY  GRAPHIC  #33,)  Inside  are  the  following:
all  items  from  characters  teleported  nude 97  base  10  g.p.  gems  and  3  huge  gems  (a  10,  000  g.p. peridot,  a  50,  000  g.p.  emerald,  and  a  100.000  g.p.  black opal)
12  potions  and  6  scrolls  (determined  randomly)
1  ring,  1  rod,  1  staff,  and  3  miscellaneous  magic  items
a  +4  sword  of  defending  and  2  cursed  swords  and  1 cursed  spear  of  backbiting
The  demi-lich  Acererak  also  lingers  in  the  crypt...
The  Deml-Lich:  Ages  past,  a  human  magic-user/cleric  of  sur¬ passing  evil  took  the  steps  necessaly  to  preserve  his  life  force beyond  the  centuries  he  had  already  lived,  and  this  creature became  the  lich,  Acererak.  Over  the  scores  of  years  which  fol¬ lowed,  the  lich  dwelled  with  hordes  of  ghastly  servants  in  the gloomy  stone  halls  of  the  very  hill  where  the  Tomb  is.  Eventu¬ ally  even  the  undead  life  force  of  Acererak  began  to  wane,  so for  the  next  8  decades,  the  lich’s  servants  labored  to  create  the Tomb  of  Horrors.  Then  Acererak  destroyed  all  of  his  slaves  and servitors,  magically  hid  the  entrance  to  his  halls,  and  went  to his  final  haunt,  while  his  soul  roamed  strange  planes  unknown to  even  the  wisest  of  sages.  Joining  the  halves  of  the  FIRST KEY  calls  his  soul  back  to  the  Prime  Material  Plane,  and  use  of the  SECOND  KEY  alerts  the  now  demi-lich  that  he  must  be prepared  to  do  battle  in  order  to  survive  yet  more  centuries.  All that  now  remains  of  Acererak  are  the  dust  of  his  bones  and  his skull  resting  in  the  far  recesses  of  the  vault.  This  bit  is  enough! If  the  treasure  in  the  crypt  Is  touched,  the  dust  swirls  into  the  air and  forms  a  man-like  shape.  If  this  shape  is  ignored,  it  will  dis¬ sipate  in  3  rounds,  for  it  can  only  advance  and  threaten,  not harm.  Any  physical  attack  will  give  it  1  factor  of  energy,  how¬ ever,  and  spell  attacks  give  it  1  energy  factor  for  every  level  of the  spell  used,  i.e.  a  3rd  level  spell  bestows  3  energy  factors. Each  factor  Is  equal  to  a  hit  point,  and  if  50  energy  factors  are gained,  the  dust  will  form  into  a  ghost  (see  ADVANCED  DUN¬ GEONS  &  DRAGONS,  MONSTER  MANUAL)  controlled  by Acererak,  and  this  thing  will  attack  immediately.  (The  dust  will waver  and  fall  back  if  it  is  struck  by  blow  or  spell,  as  if  suffering actual  damage,  so  formation  of  the  ghost  is  not  too  improb¬ able.)
If  any  character  is  so  foolish  as  to  touch  the  skull  of  the  demi- lich,  a  terrible  thing  occurs.  (USE  ILLUSTRATION  33  (A).)  The skull  of  Acererak  rises  into  the  air  upon  the  touch,  and  it  slowly scans  the  party.  There  are  2  jewels  set  into  the  eyesockets
(50,000  g.p.  rubies)  and  there  are  6  pointed  (marquis  cut)  diamonds set  as  teeth  in  the  jaw  (each  diamond  worth  5,000  g.p.).  The  demi-lich can  tell  which  member  of  the  party  is  the  most  powerful,  and  it  will usually  select  a  magic-user  over  a  fighter,  fighter  over  a  cleric,  a  cleric over  a  thief.  The  soul  of  the  strongest  will  be  drawn  instantly  from  his  or her  body  and  trapped  within  the  right  eye  |ewel,  and  the  gem-eye  will gleam  with  wickedly  evil  lights  as  the  character’s  body  collapses  in  a mass  of  corruption  and  moulders  in  a  single  round  —  totally  gone.  The skull  will  then  sink  down  again,  sated.  If  It  is  struck  or  touched  a  second time,  it  will  again  rise  and  drain  the  soul  of  the  next  strongest  character into  its  other  eye.  This  process  repeats  through  all  6  of  the  diamond teeth,  and  if  the  skull  is  still  intact  and  still  molested,  it  will  pronounce  a curse  upon  the  remaining  characters  which  will  teleport  them  randomly in  a  1 00-600  mile  radius,  each  cursed  to  some  fate  similar  to  a)  always be  hit  by  any  opponent  attacking  or  b)  never  making  a  saving  throw  or c)  always  losing  all  treasure  without  gaining  any  experience  from  it. The  latter  part  of  the  curse  can  be  removed  by  a  remove  curse  spell, but  the  charisma  of  the  character  so  treated  will  drop  2  points  immedi¬ ately  thereeafter  and  remain  there  permanently  (unless  some  magical means  of  increasing  it  is  found).
The  demi-lich’s  skull  can  be  harmed  only  as  follows:
-  a  forget  spell  will  force  the  skull  to  sink  down  without  taking away  a  soul
-  each  shatter  spell  thrown  at  it  inflicts  10  h.p.  of  damage
-  a  power  word,  kill  pronounced  from  an  astral  or  ethereal magic-user  will  destroy  it.
-  only  a  fighter  with  a  vorpal  blade,  a  ranger  with  a  sword  of sharpness  +5,  or  vorpal  weapon,  or  a  paladin  with  the  like  or even  a  +4  weapon  can  inflict  damage  upon  the  skull.
-  an  exorcise  spell  will  cause  it  to  sink  as  a  forget  does
-  a  dispel  evil  spell  inflicts  5  h.p.  of  damage
-  a  holy  word  pronounced  against  it  will  inflict  20  h.p.  of damage
-  a  thief  slinging  one  of  the  large  gems  found  in  the  crypt  will inflict  1  h.p.  of  damage  per  10,000  g.p.  of  value,  i.e.  1,  5,  or  10 h.p.  damage,  but  the  gem  is  thereby  shattered  and  even misses  must  be  saved  for  versus  a  crushing  blow  or  the  gem is  shattered  from  hitting  a  crypt  wall.
Acererak’s  skull  fakes  50  hit  points  before  it  is  destroyed,  and  it is  AC  -6.  If  the  skull  is  destroyed,  each  gem  trapping  a  soul  must make  a  saving  throw  versus  magic  as  if  it  were  the  character trapped  within.  Those  falling  their  save  contain  no  life  force  — the  demi-lich  drained  the  soul  and  devoured  it  before  being  de¬ stroyed.  Those  which  succeed  still  contain  the  character’s  soul, and  this  is  evidenced  by  a  faint  inner  light  (and  visible  as  a  tiny figure  within  the  gem  if  viewed  with  true  seeing,  true  sight  ora gem  of  seeing.)  The  soul  can  be  freed  by  crushing  the  gem, but  some  material  body  must  be  ready  within  10'  distance  to receive  it —  a  clone,  a  simulacrum,  a  souless  body  of  some  sort. DESTRUCTION  OF  THE  DEMI-LICH  EARNS  A  SUGGESTED 100,000  EXPERIENCE  POINTS.  THIS  CONSIDERS  ALL  AC¬ TIONS  WITHIN  THE  TOMB  OF  HORRORS  TO  GAIN  THE CRYPT.  TREASURE  TAKEN  OUT  SHOULD  ADD  AN  ADDI¬ TIONAL  1  EXPERIENCE  POINT  FOR  EVERY  2  G.P.  OF VALUE.
This  ends  the  expedition  to  The  Tomb  of  Horrors.  We  hope you  and  your  players  will  have  found  it  exciting,  challenging,  and rewarding.
10
Tomb  of  Horrors
CHARACTER  ROSTER  FOR  USE  WITH  THE  TOMB  OF  HORRORS
No.
Race
Class  and  Level
Stats
Cleric
Fighter
Mage
Thief
Str
Int
Wis
Dex
Con
Cha
1
H
14
11
18
10
17
15
12
2
H
14
16
12
18
16
16
14
3
H
12P
17
14
15
18
16
17
4
H
13R
16
15
14
17
18
16
5
E
5
11
17
18
12
15
15
14
6
D
9
18/91
9
11
17
18
11
7
Hg
11
10
11
12
18
16
12
8
D
7
8
16
12
9
17
18
8
9
H
9
17
10
17
15
15
13
10
H-E
5
7R
6
18/62
15
17
16
16
12
11
E
7
9
11
16
10
18
15
16
12
H
9
8
17
9
17
16
10
13
H
8
15
12
13
18
18
10
14
H
8
12
14
16
17
15
18
15
H-E
5
6
13
8
13
17
16
11
16
H
6
12
13
18
17
16
15
17
H
7P
14
10
10
15
15
17
18
G
4
51
9
18
9
18
16
7
19
H
6
18/00
11
10
12
14
13
20
Hg
4
5
10
10
8
17
16
11
Race:  D  =  Dwarf,  E  =  Elf,  H-E  =  Half-Elf,  G  =  Gnome,  H  =  Human,  Hg  =  Halfling Class:  I  =  Illusionist,  P  =  Paladin,  R  =  Ranger
SPECIAL  ITEMS  POSESSED  BY  EACH  CHARACTER
Character  Character
Number  Items  Number  Items
1  displacer  cloak,  +1  ring  of  protection,  +2  dagger, wand  of  magic  missiles
2  +3  plate  mail,  +3  shield,  +3  mace
3  +1  plate  mail,  +2  shield,  +1  flaming  sword,  ring  of fire  resistance
4  +2  splint  mail,  +2  shield,  magic  bow,  10  +1  magic arrows,  +1  sword
5  +1  chain  mail,  +3  shield,  +2  short  sword,  scroll  of 4  spells  (burning  hands,  disintegrate,  dispel magic,  levitate)
6  +1  ring  mail,  +3  shield,  gauntlets  of  ogre  power,
+2  hammer
7  +1  leather  armor,  +1  ring  of  protection,  +1  dagger,
boots  of  speed
8  cloak  of  protection  +3,  ring  of  invisibility,  +1
short  sword,  +1  dagger,  bag  of  holding  (largest)
9  +1  plate  mall,  +1  shield,  staff  of  striking,  scroll  of  2 spells  (cure  critical  wounds,  resurrection)
10  +2  chain  mall,  +1  shield,  levitation  boots,  +1  mace
11  bracers  of  defense  AC  5,  wand  of  lightning,  +2 dagger
12  +4  ring  of  protection,  wand  of  magic  detection, rope  of  climbing
13  +1  splint  mail, +1  shield, +3  spear,  potion  of
polymorph
14  +1  plate  mail, +1  shield,  staff  of  striking,  dust  of appearance
15  cloak  of  protection  +1,  +3  sword,  +1  dagger, potion  of  healing
16  +1  scale  mail,  +1  shield,  cloak  and  boots  of elvenkind,  +1  mace
17  +1  chain  mail,  ring  of  protection  +1,  crossbow  and 12  +2  bolts,  potion  of  healing
1 8  bracers  of  protection  AC  4,  boots  of  striding  and springing,  +1  axe,  +1  dagger
19  +1  plate  mail, +1  shield,  2  javellins  of  lightning, +1 hammer,  potion  of  flying
20  robe  of  blending,  +1  ring  of  protection,  sling  of seeking,  +1  short  sword
Players  must  roll  for  their  own  hit  points,  decide  upon  what  spells they  will  take,  and  list  all  equipment  and  other  weapons  they  are  tak¬ ing.  As  these  are  all  substantial  characters,  it  is  safe  to  assume  they could  have  any  items  listed  as  normally  being  for  sale,  but  do  not allow  any  to  over-encumber  themselves.  They  can  take  up  to  1 ,000 in  coins  of  any  type,  and  5,000  g.p.  in  gems  of  any  base  value,  each if  desired.
11
Tomb  of  Horrors
Number  of Players
Suggested  Character  Mixtures  for  Best  Results
Option  1
Option  II
Option  III
2
1/2/3/8
1/2/5/10
1/2/8/9/17/20
3
1/2/3/1 5/18/20
1/2/4/5/9/16
5  thru  1 3
4
5/10/11/12/17 /1 8/1 9/20
1/2/6/8/13/14 /1 8/20
9  thru  20
5
1/2/4/7/11
2/3/5/10/11
10  thru  19
6
1/2/3/8/10/17
1/5/6/7/9/18
9  thru  20
7
1/2/4/6/10/11/18
2/5/10/11/15 /1 8/20
7  thru  20
8
1/2/4/5/7/9 /1 1/1 9
1/2/6/8/12 /1 4/20
2/5/7/10/11 /1 4/1 5/1 8
9
4  thru  12
1  thru  9
5  thru  1 3
10
5  thru  1 4
1  thru  10
10  thru  19
Number  of  Characters  per  Player:  It  is  difficult  for  the  best  of  play¬ ers  to  handle  3  characters,  especially  when  these  are  not  their  own characters  which  Ihey  have  grown  familiar  wilh  over  the  course  of many  adventures.  It  Is  recommended  that  each  ptayer  control  no more  than  2  characters,  and  if  there  are  6  or  more  players,  each should  have  but  a  single  character.
Skill  Level  and  Magic  Items:  If  your  players  are  not  experts,  it  is suggested  that  you  allow  them  each  an  additional  potion  (but  you should  exclude  giant  strength  and  oil  of  etherealness)  and  possi¬ bly  a  cleric  scroll  of  3  or  4  spells.  If  the  party  rs  relatively  small  and  of lesser  levels,  pick  one  or  more  items  of  magic  from  those  shown  on the  table  above  and  distribute  them  amongst  the  characters advenluring.  If  your  players  are  few,  their  skill  level  is  near  novice,  and
you  do  not  believe  that  they  will  be  able  to  handle  multiple  charac¬ ters,  add  the  magic  items  as  suggested  and  then  up  each  1  level  of experience  from  that  shown  on  the  roster.  Do  the  same  for  total  nov¬ ices,  and  allow  them  a  man-at-arms  each  as  torch  bearer  and  pack carrier.
NOTE:  Your  players  are  free,  of  course,  to  take  in  their  own  charac¬ ters  should  you  decide  to  incorporate  the  TOMB  OF  HORRORS Into  your  own  campaign,  but  they  should  be  of  equivalent  strength  in terms  of  levels  and  magic  items  available  to  those  given  above.  If they  are  considerably  weaker,  you  should  consider  1 )  delaying  use of  this  module  until  your  players  have  obtained  additional  levels  and/ or  magic  items,  or  2)  offering  «assistance»  from  some  non-player source,  say  a  local  baron  who’d  like  to  build  a  summer  castte  on  the spot  of  the  TOMB  and  sends  your  players  to  «clean  up»  the  area. Other  similar  ideas  will  readily  suggest  themselves  with  a  little  careful thought,  but  care  should  be  taken  to  mesh  the  scenario  with  pre¬ existing  conditions  in  your  campaign.
12
