Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09174 M 3 Twilight Calling"
See other formats
Twilight Calling 

by Tom Moidvay 

















Masters Game Adventure 


TWILIGHT CALLING 

by Tom Moldvay 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 


INTRODUCTION___ 

PART I: THE SEVEN REALMS 

The Rainbow Realm .. 
The Green Realm 
The Red Realm 

The Black Realm. 

The Blue Realm . 

The White Realm . 

The Yellow Realm . 


Credits 

Design by Tom Moldvay 
Additional design, development, 
and editing by Bruce Heard, Karen 

Martin. Rick Swan, Paul 
jaquays, Kevin Stein, and 
Robin Jenkins 
Interior Art by Larry Elmore 
Cover Art by Ben Otero 
Cartography by Diane & Dave Sutherland. 

Gloria SzopinakL and Rob 
Peacock 

Typography by Carolyn Vanderbilt 

* 19NS TSR Etv Ail Ri^ii a^wil. Printed in U.&A. 

DL'M .KONS Be DKAUON5. 0*1 J. and I'ROOUCTS UP 
VOUfl, IMAGINATION rhi'TSU air imtintwrku wwnrwti 
tl* TSR Etil 

tltiirrtHjiid to thr t)*rtA trailf in r?iv United Si Bin by Rani him 
Htiuvr Inr , ind >n lUnxLo by Random H<iu|c at Cnrndi. Ltd 
!)i it ril'tried u> the tw and hMbbv itadr by rrgHm&J liinribuiert Din- 
tnbul'jJ in the Lmrcil Kingdom Itv TSR L'K Ltd 

Thu module ," prin ted under the ropyrmtir (owt nl ihr Tutted 
Stain 4 Amerk* A"y fcpfotoriioit fw ufcaulbflrtlrd uk- ol 
the ihaicrial nr Jiiwufk herein ii ptahibited wilhottl I hr CHpma 
writli* pn-mdiUHin nf TSR Inf 


FART II: CARN1FEX CASTLE 

Endgame , -. 

Playing Aids 

Players' Aid 1: Library Clues 
Players 1 Aid 2; The Septahenge .. 

Maps and Handouts 

DM Maps of the Seven Realms . 

DM Map 9: The Casfte of Burning Iron 
DM Map 10; The Hall of the Undead . 

DM Map 11: The Deadly Maze .. 

DM Map 12: Camifex Shrine . 

Pre-rolled Characters ..... T T . 


TSR Inc, 
FOB 

Lake Geneva. 
WI 53117 


TSR UK Lid. 
The Mill, Rdthmott Road 
Cambridge GBI4AD 

United Kingdom 



* 2 

.. 3 
. 3 

, 7 
, 9 
. 11 
. 19 
. 21 
. 23 

. 25 
. 28 


13 

14 


15*18 

inside Irani cover 
inside front cover 
inside back cover 
inside back cover 
..31-32 


ISBN (MM3MI6-X 


9174 





















INTRODUCTION 


Twilight Calling is written for the D&D(r) Mas* 
ter Set rules. The adventure is designed for 
four to six characters of levels 50 to 55, for an 
average total of 160 levels, Tun fight Calling is 
divided into two main parts; The Seven 
Realms and Camifex Castle, As with any 
module, read the entire adventure before be 
ginning play. 

The Plot 

A rising power among Immortals of the 
realm of night. Lord Alphaksthe Dark, needs 
a grand display of his powers m order to gain 
further recognition. He seeks to release the 
Carmfex into the world of man . These highly 
magical and malevolent creatures would 
spread death and chaos throughout. How 
ever, the path to the Carnifcx is sealed by 
forces he himself cannot shatter Should he 
even attempt this. Immortals from the rival 
spheres would certainly intervene, ruining 
his plan forever. Instead, Lord AJphaks plots 
to lure a party of daring men into forcing 
their way into the forbidden lair. The magical 
wards were designed to prevent the Camifex 
from leaving, and only lawful beings in their 
true state of mind can tamper with them. En 
tering the lair of the Camifex will shatter 
these wards and release the fury of the Garni- 
fe> r for the greatest glory of the Sphere of En 
tropy and its devoted servant, Lord Alphaks 
the Dark. 

The Camifex 

The Camifex are an ancient evil race, kin to 
both lizards and dinosaurs. Long ago they 
developed a civilization based on the darkest 
exploitation of magic. Their lust for power 
became dangerous but one experiment that 
went wrong left them trapped in another di 
mension. The experiment failed in pan be 
cause some Immortals indirectly altered their 
magic, judging their presence too dangerous. 
In the future, these creatures might have 
even challenged the Immortals themselves. 

The Immortals created seven magical 
pocket pocket dimensions between the di 
mension of the Camifex and the party's own 
world. Since then, the Immortals have lost 
in'crest in the Camifex menace since no man 
had ever managed to find the seven realms, 
and much less, get past their many dangers. 

Meanwhile, the Camifex have wailed for 
their chance. Many of them have died in the 
hostile environment of their dimension, The 
place is known to the Immortals as the Pits of 
Banishment, for neither land nor sky exists in 
this world of nothingness. Those creatures 


cast there are condemned to fall eternally 
through a nocturnal abyss. Although the fall 
is real, the Pits of Banishment are indeed a 
universe limited in space, the shape of a 
sphere. Upon reaching its limits, one reap 
pears at the starting point, as if within a huge 
globe. 

The few Camifex survivors, the most pow 
erful and fearsome of their kind, banded to 
gether and built a mighty fortress which floats 
forever in the darkness, as the last bastion of 
the Camifex menace. It sits at the very place 
as the gate into their world. 

Through the use of their powerful magic, 
they discovered Alphaks' possible plan to 
open the gate. However, they know not when 
these daring men will arrive. Men have al 
ways been an unpredictable (actor, Since the 
discovery of the plot, the Camifex have been 
waiting, paying some limited attention to the 
possibility. 

The Pocket Universes 

Age old Immortals created these pocket di 
mensions eons ago to surround the realm of 
the Camifex. Each dimension has been de 
signed to test the abilities of those who would 
dare enter and reach the Camifex. Magical 
items are located in these pocket dimensions; 
once reunited, the gate to the universe of the 
Camifex will be opened. Each of these magi 
cal items is guarded by the ruler of a pocket 
dimension, called Guardian. These arc 
quasi-immortal creatures who can only be 
destroyed bv a more powerful foe. They are 
in charge of their realms, but since they were 
created have become irrational and eccentric- 
beings. Whether the Guardians let the party 
obtain these items depends on the PCs' abil 
ity to defeat them or solve the various prob 
lems they pose 

Beginning the Adventure 

Run this adventure at a time when the party 
is resting, such as after an expedition. A 
stranger mysteriously comes to one of the 
PCs 1 mansions. A servant or a seneschal 
warns the PC about the unexpected arrival, 
leading the PC to the mansion's entrance. 
The man dutches at a bag of emeralds, dia 
monds, sapphires, and rubies. He is 
wounded and dying. He seems also quite 
mad. "The Camifex are coming!" he raves. 
"Soon, they will be ready. Beware of Guard 
ian Mesa. Don't let them get me] Help mcl 
Stop them! 11 The stranger babbles on for sev 
eral minutes. Near the end, however, he 
grows calmer. "What use is this," he says, 


throwing away a bag of rubies he had been 
clutching. "It is meaningless, unimportant. 
If only I had known before what I know now. 
Listen! There is not much time. I see death 
and destruction stalking you ah. From the 
Guardian Mesa will come your doom. Where 
I go now, you will soon follow^ 

Then the stranger dies; his body rapidly 
decomposes and turns into ashes. No spell 
can revive the remains because the madman 
was a puppet under Alphaks' control. Al 
phaks has destroyed this mortal form in this 
rather spectacular way to impress the PCs. 
He now awaits in the Sphere of Entropy, 
Should a PC attempt to speak with dead* Al 
pha ks answers ^pretending to be the dead 
madman's spirit), and explains that the 
causes of his death are still too painful to be 
discussed. However* he explains that the 
Guardian Mesa is in the Broken Lands, ex 
actly fifty miles north of the city of Corun- 
glam, and reveals that only a few powerful 
and brave men can enter the place he once 
visited, and deal with the menace within. A 
secret they need is hidden at the Mesa, In a 
fading voice, Alphaks adds that a deadly en 
tity awaits inside to break into the world of 
men. Once it is free, no one will ever be able 
to stop it; the PCs must go in and destroy the 
threat. 

This adventure starts in the Broken Lands 
which are marked on Map #2: The Lands 
and Environs of the D&D(r) Wilderness in the 
Expert Rulebook (page 33). As described in 
D&D(r) Module Xl, The Broken Lands are 
an area of rocky badlands and old volcanic 
lava beds. The land is extremely wild, and is 
inhabited mainly by outcasts and monsters. 
The Broken Lands were chosen as a setting 
simply for convenience, on a map familiar to 
the players. 

Most of the adventure, however, actually 
takes place in seven magical realms. These 
magical lands are not part of the normal 
world, so you can place the starting area any 
where that is convenient for your campaign. 
Keep in mind that the starting area must logi 
cally hold an undimbable plateau with a cave 
entrance. 

To open the pathway to the other-world di 
mension of the Camifex, the characters first 
have to find the Guardian Mesa, enter each 
of the seven magical realms, and find therein 
seven magical symbols. Atop Guardian Mesa 
in The Broken Lands stands a Stonehenge- 
like edifice Each henge is a different color 
and leads to one of the magical realms. It 
makes no difference in what order the realms 
are visited. 


2 





PART I: THE SEVEN REALMS 


Encounter Setting 

The characters first must reach Guardian 
Mesa, a known landmark in The Broken 
Lands. Sages in Corungtain or in Glaum 
City ran point out Guardian Mesa's location 
None of them knows for sure what it is. A 
huge library exists ai in the Great School of 
Magic, at the City of Glantri , If the party is 
seeking more information on the Guardian 
Mesa, MFCs may advise the party to consult 
the library. Many ancient secrets are buried 
there, in its dark halls. The clues the party 
will find there are detailed in encounter #1 

The entrance to the top of the plateau lies 
in a large cave at the fact nf Guardian Mesa. 
At the end of the cave is a circular lift that can 
magically raise the characters to the plateau- 
tup of the mesa, A permanent force field in the 
shape of a sphere keeps the top of the plateau 
out of reach from outsiders. It cannot be dis 
pelled because- it was installed by Immortals. 
Characters mtapablc of trUponm^ or using di 
mension dour to get inside have to enter 
through the cave at the bottom of the plateau. 

In all of the seven realms flying, and all 
transportation spells {teleportation, dimension 
door, passwalij etc) are magical powers that do 
not function, nor can anyone move faster 
than 120' per round. Trying to move Faster 
simply causes the victim to slow down in- 
stead as ifln a dream. For example, some* 
one normally trying lo move at 150' per 
round would actually move: 150*120 " 50' 
less than 120' (thus 90 r ). In any ease* victims 
should always be able to move at least 30' per 
round These limits only apply to individuals 
from outside the realm. Creatures that live in 
the realm are not affected, The restriction 
makes the inhabitants of each magical realm 
more effective. 

Time in the seven realms is also unusual. It 
is always l he same day. Minutes and hours 
pass normally, but the day always remains 
the same In game terms this means that 
movement and combat arc normal Charac 
ters only age if victim to a magical spell. But 
the characters cannot heal by resting nor can 
spell casters re-memorize spells. Once a spell 
is used it is gone until the character can leave 
the magical realm and rest on the Prime Ma 
terial Plane. This does nor apply to the Pits of 
Banishment where the Oamifex live. 

Encounter Kev 

1. The Library 's Secrets 

The party may find dues on the Guardian 
Mesa at the Library of the Great School of 


Magic r in Giant ri City. For a fee of 500 gp per 
visitor, the PCs are allowed to stay one full 
day and search the halls of the library. Each 
PC has a 10% chance per hour spent in the li 
brary of finding one of the following dues 
given below Some information is valuable, 
some is virtually worthless. Even though 
some information directly contradicts other 
clues, none of the information is completely 
false, In some situations the concept of 
"truth" or "falsehood" is either irrelevant or 
ambiguous 

The Library Clues 

1. In the Pits of Banishment, blow the 
horn at the doorway to Garriifex Castle 
(quote from the Codex of the Planes, 
Vbl. I) 

2. The entrance to the seven realms lies on 
Guardian Mesa (The Traveler's Mas 
ters Set, Vbl. IV) 

3. Beauty lives at the center of the garden 
(Charms of the Green Realm, by 
Etienne d'Ambreville) 

I. Cannibalism is a feeding habii common 
to the Pits of Banishment, practiced by 
some of its victims, such as Oamifex 
(Exotic Intcrpl&nar Foods, Tome XX- 
XIII) 

5. Rainbows are a mean? of traveling in 
the sphere of colors* but let it be known 
there is no such thing as a pot of gold sit 
ting at one end. (Lore of the Seven 
Realms, by Prince Vanserie Vlaardoen) 

6. G arnifex were notorious for experi 
menting new magic effects on their pris 
oners, (Positive Thinking in Spell 
Research; scroll fragment 3456-XZ) 

7. Gall the sea-foam steeds and they will 
answer as long as the plane is white, 
(scribbled note in the cover of a moldy 
tome) 

8. The an of fly mg and moving through 
the ether is a delicate thing. It will not 
always function in other worlds, such as 
the seven realms (Tome on the Fol 
lowers of the Air, by Eriadna) 

9 Glory to the redwood for its tree door 
will lead to a secret of seven realms (un 
known song in the Encyclopedia of the 
Bards) 

10. Insanity remains when the level of 
magic encompasses all that was ever 
learnt before, l, myself, and others such 
m t 'arnifex have been afflicted with this 
utter folly,-. (Life of Prince Mortem) 

! 1. All is noi what if appears to hr light 
remains after darkness* life springs 
forth after death, hope susbsists after 


oblivion. This, my son, is a universal 
taw affecting even the seven realms, 
(Lord McGregor's Teachings, en 
graved skull XXVII, dated 1090) 

12 Of ail Lhe constructions t have ever 
seen, never did I find such a fabulous 
map. The architecture of Castle Carni 
fex defies even die mind of the cleverest 
dwarf. (Life of a Castellan, by Hippo- 
liio de Fedorias) 

13. In the realm of blue know ye that Jus 
tice awaits beyond the King's palace 
(Essay on the Purpose of Life, un* 
marked scroll). 

14. Of all the laws of navigation, my vener 
able uncle mentioned an obscure one I 
never was able to fully comprehend. He 
said once the Seven Gates appear, there 
is no turning back.., (Treaty of Explo 
ration, by Gumuarr Rolfsen) 

15. In the realms of the outer planes exist 
things of power unspeakable. I once en 
visioned a fortress of flames... One 
must not linger in such dwelling. 
(Dreams and Nightmares. Vol. I) 

16. Gold is pure hut hard to find A place 
exists in Utter darkness where a castle 
gleams amidst oblivion. Its walls are 
made of gold, and gems arc but com 
mon gravel (The Lost Worlds, by A itch 
G. Wails) 

17. The sea-girt isle holds the hourglass. 
This item is of great importance tn the 
world of white. (Unearthed Fantasia, 
by the Guild of Wizards) 

18. I once contacted some creature of the 
outer planes and it told me the biggest 
magical item treasure was in Castle 
Carnifex, bur I was never able to figure 
where this is (Treasure Hunter's Guide, 
by Prince jaggar) 

19. Lie not to the lawgiver, for it may bring 
upon thee the wrath of the entire realm 
of blue for seven generations (Glanman 
Arcane Code) 

20. There was once a Black Staff in the 
world. Its powers are immense, but for 
the safety of men, it must be destroyed 
(Origins of Magic, by the Baron nf Ig- 

orov) 

21. The best disguises are often inhuman, 
A legend says that Gamifex could imi 
tate nearly anything without much 
chance of being discovered. (Thieves' 
Manual, unsigned} 

22. Past jungle and swamp in a strange 
world of black waits the black master. 
Beware, ye who stride beyond, (scrip 
ture from a torn piece of metal, dated 
3,000 years ago) 


3 





PART I: THE SEVEN REALMS 


23. Time is such an outdated concept... 
Look for example at some other worlds; 
although things exist, it is always the 
same day. (Diary of a Time Traveler) 

24. The greatest arrow that was ever made 
is now in the hands of a chariot driver, 
somewhere in an outer plane where col 
ors are the prime matter (moldy letter 
from one collector to another) 

2b. It is wise not to blow horns at the en 
trance of a castle, especially if one docs 
not know what awaits inside (Wise 
Guide to Outer Planes Adventuring, 
page I) 

27. It is wise to think before acting. What is 
best for all may not be good for one 
(Wise Guide to Outer Planes Adven 
turing, page 2). 

2fv It is wise to pay attention to those things 
that exist but are dead as well, What 
breathes and talk is not always alive 
(Wise Guide to Outer Planes Adven- 
luring, page 3). 

2**, The dosed door: such a useless concept. 
It is so much fun to prove the builder of 
a door that there is always someone who 
will get past. Even the gray door in the 
Pits of Banishment, all it needs is seven 
magical tokens lo open - then why 
build if? (Tome on Halfling Philosophy) 

Player A id /: Library Glut* should be given to 
the playens for permanent reference. The 
DM is free 10 add more once he is better ac 
quainted with the adventure. 

On the back is Player Aid 2; The Septahengc. 
Normally, the second player aid would be 
given to the players a little later in the adven 
ture < If they should accidentally catch a 
glimpse of it now it won't matter too much, 
since it alludes to their next major encounter. 

2 Guardian Mesa 

Guardian Mesa is a noted landmark in The 
Broken Lands, The characters should have 
no trouble finding it. Guardian Mesa is in the 
approximate center of the Broken Lands, 
about 30 miles from the city ofCorunglain, If 
the DM wishes, he can run the oveHand jour 
ney as pan of the adventure. Whenever the 
party reaches the plateau, read the following 
text Jo the players: 


A high mesa of gray basalt rises among the 
sharp jagged rocks, roughly circular in 
shape, The mesa towers a thousand feet 


high and 50€ feci wide The top of the 
mesa is shrouded by strange clouds, much 
like normal storm clouds, but at times 
they mysteriously reflect different colors. 
Sometimes they have a blue tint; some 
times they look red While you watch you 
sec every color of the rainbow come and 
go 

At the base of the mesa is a large cave. 
The cave is about 20 feet wide and runs 
straight inside the mesa as far as you can 
see. 


Run encounter 4 for characters able m teleport 
onto the mesa directly. Otherwise, play the 
following encounter for characters entering 
the cave. 

3. The Circle of Symbols 


You see a roughly circular cavern about 50 
feet wide. The cavern walls are rough- 
hewn stone, showing that a smaller cave 
has been enlarged by hand. There arc two 
unusual features to the cavern. The first is 
a smooth, perfectly circular area in the 
middle of the cavern floor. The circle is ID 
feet in diameter and made from a different 
kind of rock than the rest of the cave. 
Chiselled into the stone of the circle are 
seven symbols Each symbol is about the 
size of a hand. The seven symbols seem to 
be stylized, linear depictions of: a square, 
a star, an arrow, a cup, a circle, atnangle, 
and an hourglass. The second unusual 
feature of the cavern is its ceiling. Directly 
above the circle of symbols is an open 
shaft. The shaft is the same size as the cir 
cle and seems to stretch to the top of the 
mesa. 


The circle of symbols is a magical lift con 
nected to the top of the mesa. In the cave wall 
is a secret panel concealing a lever set in the 
cave wall. The lever is coated with a contact 
poison. It can be safely handled as long as no 
one touches it with their bare skin. The poi 
son does not affect the victim right away. The 
symptom, a 1 round loss of conscience* only 
occurs when the character over exerts himself 
(working hard, running, or fighting more 
than one round). The poison will remain in 
the victims System unLil its effect is triggered 
once. 

When the lever b depressed it activates the 
magic of the lift. The lift will slowly rise to the 


top of the mesa. It moves slowly enough that 
a character might be able to pull the lever and 
still run to catch the lift. The character has to 
roll his dexterity score or lower. Add one to 
the roll for each 300 en of encumbrance w orn 
by the character (round off in the character's 
favor). 

The shaft has a permanent dispel magic at its 
mid-point It does not affect magical items 
such as flying carpets or the magical lift, but it 
does negate spells. 

4* The Septahcngc 


A circle of symbols rises until it is Hush 
with the plateau on top of the mesa. On 
the plateau stands a Stonehenge-like edi 
fice of seven dolmen arches arranged 
roughly in a circle. Each arch is about 20 
feet wide and 15 feet tall. Beyond the 
arches you see nothing but a formless 
voirh Even the sky overhead has turned 
gray and shapeless. 

Each dolmen hengc is a different color. 
Six of the henges are one solid color, The 
six colors are red, green, yellow, black, 
white, and blue. The seventh henge is 
made from rainbow-colored stones. 


These seven henges are the gates leading to 
the seven magical realms of the Guardians. It 
makes no difference in what order the realms 
are entered. In each realm is one of the seven 
magical symbols. When all the symbols are 
placed in the appropriate place on the circle 
oT stone, the way Id Camifex Castle will be 
opened. 

At this point the DM can let the players 
look at the bark of the Library Clues aid. 
Player Aid 2 is a diagram of the plateau show 
ing the seven Henges and the circle (including 
the seven symbols). 

Note that while the Immortals created the 
seven realms, none ol die inhabitants of those 
realms are I hem selves true Immortals. Origi 
nally the inhabitants were servants of the Im 
mortals although some of them have since 
become independent and no longer take or 
ders from their creators. 


4 







The Rainbow Realm 


Encounter Setting 

The rainbow henge leads w the realm of Na- 
bu metis Hk symbol is rhe five-pointed star 
made of deetnitn fan ally of silver and gold). 

To win past the guardian of the Realm, the 
characters will have to be clever with a sense of 
humor. Above alL they wilt need patience. 
Imagination and inventiveness are definite as 
sets, as is the ability to talk one's self our of dan 
ger, instead of mindlessly swinging weapons. 

The ultimate symbol of rbc Rainbow 
Realm is the fool who learns to control the 
chaos within him, and in (he process, be* 
comes the magician. 

Aspects of This Adventure 

This setting offers an excellent chance for 
role-playing both by the players and the DM. 
Thoughtful play will allow the characters to 
avoid many of the potentially dangerous en 
counters. 

Encounter Key 

1* The Gray Mists 


On the other side of the henge you see an 
area of heavy gray fog which restricts vi 
sion to 30V Far off, m (he direction away 
from the henge, you see the taint reflec 
tion of a rainbow that shines through the 
mist. Likewise, when you look behind you 
nonce that the rain bow-coin red henge can 
always be seen. 


When passing through the mists the charac 
ters may have a random encounter. Roll ld&. 
On a roll ofl-4, the characters will encounter 
a Drolem The Drolem w ill appear out of the 
mists, giving the characters just enough time 
to draw 1 their weapons 

Drolem: AC 3; HD 20***"*; hp 90: MV 
I AT 2 daws/1 bite; D 2-12/2- 
12/11-20, Save FIG; ML 12; AL N; XP 
7750; SA poison gas breath. 

2. The Rainbow Plain 


Pita! ihe gray mists you see a rolling, hilly 
plain stretching clear tn the horizon. The 
plain is covered with lush grass. Vervain, 
pimpernel, and violets grow with red, lav* 
endrr, purple, while, and blue flowers. A 
close look shows that the budding flowers 
arc made of glass. 


A huge rainbow arches over the plains. 
One end is near the gray mists. The other 
stretches to the far horizon. Al the near 
end you see a small silvery lake. Near the 
lake you see a sphinx sitting on a hill. The 
other end of the rainbow is too far away to 
see dearly. 

Behind you, you notice that the henge 
glows faintly acting as a return beacon 
through the gray mists. 


If the characters go to (he rainbow, they will 
discover that they cannot touch it. The only 
way to be able to walk over the rainbow is to 
answer the Sphinx's riddles or recover the 
items that are in the middle of the silver lake. 

Tire Sphinx on (he hill is friendly. He will 
not attack unless he is attacked First, He has 
three riddles for the characters. The Sphinx 
tells the characters that if they can answer his 
riddles, they may safely cross the rainbow* to 
where the next part of their adventure lies. 
Otherwise, they may encounter the dangers 
of the bridge. He will not elaborate on these 
dangers, If the players can answer one riddle, 
they may safely ride die rainbow from one 
end to the other. If they can answer two rid 
dles, the characters can ride both w*ays on (he 
rainbow. If the characters can answer all 
three riddles, the return trip will take ihem 
back to the henge. If they do not answer all 
three riddles, there h another chance to en 
counter a Drolem in the mists on the way 
back to the henge, 

The players have the option to try to cross 
the hilly plains, but a permanent enchant* 
ment there makes it impossible to ever reach 
the other side without crossing the bridge, no 
matter what means are used. 

The three riddles and their answers are 
Listed below. 

Riddle 1 

Ripped from its mother's arms. 

Tormented by fire, 

Hammered without mercy. 

It becomes a bloodthirsty slayer 

Answer 

A Sword (or any steel weapon) 

Riddle 2 

Twins who, when dose together, 

Gan never touch each other. 

Bui who, when at a distance r 
Can unite as one. 

Answer 
The Eyes 


Riddle 3 

Without it wc soon die. 

But it is no firm foundation. 

We can never ready see it 
Beware ifii comes in force. 

Answer 
The Air 

The players may take as much time and give 
as many answers as they want. The sphinx 
will ted them when they are right or wrong, 
When the characters answer a riddle cor- 
reedy, they will instantly know they have the 
ability to cross the bridge. There is no special 
magical phrase or item needed. 

3 + The Near End of the Rainbow 


At the end of the rainbow closest to the 
gray mist you see a small silver lake about 
100 feet around. In the center of the lake, 
you all see a glass case. In the case is some 
sort of wand. 


The lake will attack the characters if they try 
to take the wand, or get within 10 feet. 

The entire lake is alive and made of quick 
silver, which is poisonous to touch or breath. 
It can change shape at will* but these shapes 
will alw ays be made of quicksilver It is im 
mune to any physical attacks, including spells 
that normally do physical damage tu a small 
area, such as a magic missile or lightning 
bolt. It can be harmed by spells that cause ex 
tremes in temperature, but if burnt, any 
character within 100 yards will rake half the 
damage inflicted, as the lake gives off poison 
fumes. For example, if a Fireball spell did 90 
points of damage, all characters within 100 
yards will take 45 points of damage. No save 
versus poison is allowed because the gas is 
both breathed and absorbed through the 
skin. 

The lake attacks by swamping a target in a 
wave of quicksilver, Any character hit must 
save versus poison or die. 

Quicksilver Lake: AG -3; HD 80* * *; hp 350; 
MV 360 r (B0'); #AT 3 waves; D 4*40 + 
poison,; Save F36; ML H; AL G; XP 
67,500. 

The lake can be stopped by a number of spells 
and magical powers. Any power that creates 
a physical, non-burning barrier (such as force 
field) can contain u long enough for the play 
ers to reach ihe case. The case is gold edged, 
and has a small door. There are no locks or 


5 









The Rainbow Realm 


traps. Inside is a violet crystal wand* a dag 
ger, and a ring. 

The treasure is the wand of Kolorom. a magi 
cal wand made of deep violet crystal. The 
wand has the special ability to duplicate any 
of the 13 kinds of magic wands (upon com 
mand of the magic-user). Thus, one round it 
could act as a wand offirt both, and the nest 
round act as a wand of magic detection The 
wand has 30 charges left* There is also a ring 
of protection + 4 , and a dagger +5 with the tal 
ent of deceiving. 

Once the characters have the items from 
the lake* ir will (urn into ordinary 1 water and 
stop attacking the characters, if the charac 
ters did not answer the Sphinx's riddles, but 
did recover the three treasures, they will all 
discover that they can nosv touch the bridge. 

4, Crossing the Rainbow Bridge 

When the characters start to cross the rain 
bow, they will find that each of their steps 
moves them leagues of distance. The bridge 
itself glows pleasantly* and feels like a soft 
field. 

If the characters did not answer the 
Sphinx's riddles* there ts a 1-4 chance (on 
Idfi) of encountering a Rainbow Knight. 
These beings look like animated suits of plate 
mail made of glass. Inside each of the suits is 
a wondrous display of colors. The Rainbow 
Knights will immediately attack the charac 
ters, giving them just enough rime to draw 
their weapons. There will l>r one Rainbow 
Knight per character 

Rainbow Knight: AC -2; HD 21*"**; hp 70; 
fAT 2 sword/1 special; D 4-24/4-24/1 Cl - 
100; NA special; Save F20; ML 12; ALC; 
XP special; $A Shatter; when a Rainbow 
Knight is destroyed, its shards will fly ai 
the attacking character and do 10-100 
points of damage, unless a saving throw 
versus Paralysis is made SD 25% Anti- 
Magic 

The characters receive no experience points 
for destroying a Rainbow Knight. 

5* The Far End of the Rainbow 


Ai the other end of the rainbow, you sec a 
slender voung man with a fair complex 
ion, purple eyes, medium-long hlack hair, 
and a dose-trimmed beard. He wears 
winged sandals* and a grav tunic embrai- 
dered with mystical Mgils in all colors. 

He is standing cm a stage built of multi 


colored mother-of-pearl, in front of a table 
of amethyst. A grove of laurel trees sur- 
rounds the stage. 

In from of the man* on the table, arc 
three cards. Ah soon as the man sees you 
he begins shouting like a sideshow barker. 

*'Hur-rayt Hur-ray! Hur ray! Step 
right upl Everyone's a winner! Pick the 
card and win a prize! Only a gold piece a 
chance. Here it is, the deal of a lifetime! 41 


This encounter is more fun if the DM mimics 
the manVactions. The DM and the players 
will be playing a thrce-card monte. The DM 
will need three cards, preferably the queen of 
hearts, the king of clubs, and the ace of 
spades. The queen is called "The Lady/' The 
king is called 'The Gem/* and the ace is 
called "The Spot" Show the players each 
card in mm* then place them face down on 
the table in a row next to each other. 


'* Right here! Right now! An easy game! A 
simple game! A game of chance! A game 
of daring! Here we have The Lady Now 
she's face down on the table. Here's The 
Gem. He follows the Lady. Last, hut not 
least, we have The Spot. Now ail three 
players are in place . 

Tm going to shuffle the cards a bit and 
all you have to do is find The Lady Find 
T he Lady and win a prize! A gold piece a 
cry. Place your bets* 1 haven't got all day! 
You can't win if you don't bet!" 


The DM doesn't have to read the monologue 
to the players, any similar patter will do. The 
main thing is to keep talking while moving 
the cards 

Keep the cards face down. The DM should 
keep mixing them back and forth, Don't 
worry about being too tricky. The encounter 
works best if the player can pick the queen tor 
hii character. 


1 1 see we have a sportsman. Watch closely 
now. Here we go, The Lady. The Gem* 
and The Spot, mixed this way and that 
Can the hand be quicker (han the eye? 
Were you watching closely? Okay now, 
point to The Lady. Don't touch the cards, 
son, it's bad luck, everybody knows that!" 


If the plaver guesses an incorrect card, the 
only penalty is a gold pin e. Keep playing un 
til the player guesses correctly When the 
queen is chosen* the man (and the DM) will 
act surprised. He wiII walk around to the 


other side of the table to look at the scene 
from the character'* viewpoint . 


"Are you sure? Is that really The Lady? 
Let me set W hy, you're right! I guess you 
win the prize! 11 


The man is Nabumctis* a consummate trick 
ster who delights in practical jokes. The 
w-hde show is a ploy to get him dose to the 
characters in order to pick their pickets Na- 
bumetis has magical powers to aid his thiellv 
abilities There is no chance to detect this 
theft. If successful, he will have stolen one 
small magical item from the character mak 
ing the guess, no matter whai or where it was. 

The joke comes when Nabumctis gives the 
character his own magic item back as prize 
In addition to the joke prize, Nabumctis 
will also give the character a stuffed teddy 
bear with glass eyes. He will look sadly at the 
bear and say "Once again my favorite toy is 
ripped from my arms." If the players get this 
subtle hint! and fear off the arms r>l the bear, 
mside they will discover a five-pointed dcc- 
trum star, the symbol of the Realm, 

Nabumctis has no intention of fighting the 
characters and will only act in self-defense 

Nabumctis: AC -13; HD 39.; hp 175; 

MV 120 r (40 1 ); PAT 2 sword or 1 spell; D 
2-20 each; Save M36; ML II, AL G; XP 
46,000; SA spells prismatic waif dame, re 
verse gravity, anti-magic shell, haste, lightning 
ball, mirror image. 

Whether the? characters immediately discover 
(he star or not, Nabumctis will laugh heartily* 
and both he ami his equipment will disappear* 
leaving the characters lit the rainbow bridge. 

6* Back Across the Bridge 

If the characters answered two of the Sphinx's 
riddles, there is no chance to encounter the 
Rainbow Knights on the return tnp, otherwise, 
them is still 1-4 chance (on ld6). 

While the characters are crossing the 
bridge* everything behind them will vanish, 
leaving only a multi-colored wall behind 
them. The wall cannot be seen or moved 
through. 

If the players answered all of the Sphinx's 
riddles, there is no chance of encountering a 
Drolem in the minis They will find them 
selves at the rainbow hirnge. 

If the players did not answer all three of the 
riddles, there is the normal 1-4 chance (on 
Idfi) of encountering a Drolem. 


6 









The Green Realm 



Encounter Setting 

The green hcngc leads to the realm of Beta- 
tra. whose symbol is the stylized brass cup, 
Her realm is the traditional ideal of the planet 
Venus and the feminine aspects of nature 
(though the land is a mystical, magical place, 
and not an actual planet) 

Although combat and role-play will be re j 
quireri equally, the green realm is a test of the 
characters* ability to overcome obstacles 
without resorting to violence and their resist 
ance 10 the seductive lure of luxurious, but 
stifling stasis. To obtain the realm's symbol, 
the pc s must become the force of change that 
bring-, new growth. 

Encounter Key 

!. Caer Ambriel 


You drop down onto the wide branch of a 
gargantuan redwood tree behind you, 
the green hengc hangs suspended in mid 
air* Where the branch joins the trunk, you 
sec an ornately carved w'oodcn door, ap 
parently leading into the interior of the 
tree 


Characters who climb down the outside of die 
tree wiH not find the Guardian The entrance 
to the Garden of Belmra is magical and can 
only be reached by passing through the for 
tress of Cacr Ambrid ("Caer M means for* 
tress) Otherwise, the spur normally occupied 
by the garden is mere forest 

At *he height of the door {about 2lfl r from 
the gmund), the tree is about 70 feet wide, It 
extends upward another 250 feel At its base, 
Lhe tree is about 90 feet wide 

Thr door, made of living wood, is locked 
and can never be opened by a Camifcx with 
out destroying it; hul it can be opened by a 
thief or a magic spelt or by bashing i t down. 


Inside, the tree is honeycombed with 
rooms like an riven fortress-dry. The av 
erage room is no! much larger than 20 feet 
on a side, Wooden stairs lead upw ard and 
downward. Finely crafted wooden fur 
nishings are everywhere. But must unu 
sual are the wooden statues of civen 
people all sculpted in lifelike poses - as if 
frozen in the middle of their duties. 


The statues arc the tree's citizens. The door is 
magically dosed to all Garni fex. Only a non- 
Camifcx can open it. If the PCs smash down 
the door, it will activate an alarm and reani 
mate the elves. 


Before you can notice much else, the 
wooden statues come alive as civen war 
riors. yelling "Die Camifexl" 


The elves' natural assumption is that if the door 
is broken down, the Camifcx (in disguise) must 
be attacking. Each round, 3-12 tOth-levd elves 
will muster to repel the supposed invaders. 
Eren at this stage, it Is still possible to conv ince 
the elves that the PCs are not Camifcx. 

There are a total of 70 riven Lord Wizards. 
They cautiously defend die entry- hall, catting 
defensive spells, parrying attacks and blocking 
exits: bur wait fur their full strength to arrive be 
fore attacking in force The elves who arrive will 
have all cast mirror image and haste- 

70 Elves: AC -4; HD 10****; hp 45: M 
I20'(4€')i ft 1 AT 1 sword or l spell; D 2d8; 
Save E !0; ML 10; AL N: XP 4000; SA 
spells fithlmind. ut storm t dispel magic > 
haste . T lightning boh. invisibility, mirror image, 
magic missile. 

2. Ambriel Elven Queen 


You descend on richly carved stairs to the 
center of an opulent circular chamber. 


When compared with other rooms in the 
tree, its 70 font diameter and 30 foot high 
ceding seem all the more imposing. A 
strikingly beautiful dven maiden with 
green, leafy hair, brown, wood-hued skin 
and richly decorated leather armor moves 
to block the door out. With firm resolve, 
she brings her ornately carved wooden 
shield and wooden war dub to readiness. 


The woman is A mbriel, queen of the fortress. 
She is tired of eternal vigilance and desper 
ately wants to believe the PCs, letting them 
pass if they give her a good explanation. 
However, if the PCs have destroyed vegeta 
tion while in the realm or slain any of her ri 
ven servants, she attacks. Ambriel can cast 
any druid spell as a 33rd level cleric. She at 
tacks by first casting metal to wood and warp 
wood, then casts spells as Jong as possible. If 
losing badly, she will retreat into the garden 
and summon the gargantuan treams. If re 
duced to half hit points, she escapes by cast 
ing pass plant - 

Any elf who encounters Ambrid must 
make a saving throw vs Spells or be charmed 
into saving her, even in combat against 
friends. 

If befriended. Ambrid stays here; but will 
aid the PCs when they encounter Befotra. 

Ambriel: AC Gf; HD 33*****, hp 150; MV 
120'(40 f ); #AT 2: D 2d4 + 9 each; Save 
C33; ML 11; AL N; XP 25,000; SA all 
druid spells creeping doom, metal to wood, turn 
wood, dissolve, i carp wood, SA 4 9 to hit. 

3, The Garden of Delights 


An immense meadow lias been lovingly 
crafted into a formal garden the likes of 
which vou have never seen before. Every 
thing grows here, always in bloom. As 
gentle breezes caress you with subtle per- 


7 













The Green Realm 


turrits, luscious fruits and nuts almost fall 
mto ymir hands, begging to be eaten. 
Paths of jade ramble past scented foun 
tains to span babbling brooks with ornate 
uakwood bridges before slipping into tall 
hedge mazes, guarded by cleverly 
sculpted topiary beasts. 


A pair of gargantuan imams jealously tend 
the garden The gargantuan t reams follow 
the PCs around the garden, The characters 
have a 1-2 chance (on IdG) of encountering 
these towering monsters each time they enter 
a new he* on the garden map. If the eharao 
ters destroy vegetation, the gargantuan 
treaties' fim animate trees, then enter the 
combat themselves The animated trees must 
be within 120 feet of the gargantuan trearns. 
Each gargantuan tncant can animate four 
trees. 

Gargantuan Ircants: AC *2; HD 32*; hp 
144; MV 60'(2G'); #AT 2 branches; D 8- 
48 each; Save F 32; ML 10; AL L; XP 
10,000; SA animate 4 trees la fight as 
treants. 

Eight animated trees; AC 2; HD 8*; hp 36; 
MV 3G'( 10'); fAT 2 branches; D 2-12 
each; Save F 8; ML 9; AL L; XP 1200. 

4, Stillness of Stasis 


An oppressing silliness permeates the air 
of the crisply trimmed maze, chilling your 
buncs and stiffening your joints. Like a 
dream, all about you is suspended - a 
dove hangs motionless in mid air, a 
comely lass never quite tastes the peach 
iihe holds. 


This is the hedge maze that leads to Bdotra, 
the embodiment of her changeless ideals. The 
characters can neither climb over nor pass 
through die hedge walk 
s' Explosive Treasure 


The mase opens onto a wide grove ringed 
by dark apple trees. The earth near the 
' enter of the glade has been disturbed, re 
vealing a partially buried wooden cheat. A 
mattock and a shovel lie nearby. 


Tnts h t he gmve of the malurites, magical be 
ings in the form of apple trees. The malusites 
jealously guard their treasure by hurling ex 
ploding apples at any who dare touch the 


chest. When they hit, the apples explode for 
3*30 pointy of damage (no saving throw'), but 
only when hurled by the malusites. Other 
wise, they arc normal apples. Destroying ma- 
lusites does not constitute destroying 
vegetation. 

Seven Malusucs AC 4; HD 21*; hp 95; MV 
30 # (1Q f ); MT 2 apples; D 3-30 each; Save 
F 21; ML 10, AL N; XP 4500 

The Malushes* chest contains four magical 
treasures, each made of soft, flexible, woody 
fiber and each useful to one character class: a 
tunic, a hooded cloak, a pair of boots and a 
pair of gauntlets. 

The tunic of glory (cleric) has the powers of 
an mfi-magu shell (as the spell), useable three 
times a day, and haste {as the spell) useable 
twice a day. 

The shaman j mantle {magic user) lowers the 
wearer's Armor Glass base to 4 (instead of 9), 
granting the powers of invulnerability (as the 
potion) and spell turning (as the ring), each 
useable twice a day. 

The dfitpior '$ boots (thief) allow 1 the wearer 
to turn ethereal (as the potion) twice a day; and 
grant the powers of invisibility (as the ring) 
and (Irmbing (as the potion), each useable 
three times daily. 

The gauntlets of might (fighter) allow 1 the 
w r earcr to do double damage (as a girdle of giant 
strength) three times a day, and has the power 
of regeneration (as the ring), 

Demi-humaits can use the gauntlets nj might 
and elves can use the shaman j mantle. Items 
are completely non-magical for classes other 
than indicated for that item. Final note; all 
these items are powerless in B do tea's glade 

6. Belolra the Beautiful 


Like an empress on a jade throne, a stun 
ningly beautiful woman reclines on a leafy 
divan, Luxuriant gnicien-bmwn hair Frames 
a perfect face set with emerald eyes. A trans 
lucent gown accentuates her perfect figure. 
Seven great swans surround her and the 
brass cup that gleams on the gnarled oak be 
hind her throne of plants. 


The woman is Betorra, Guardian of die green 
realm. The swans are her retinue of swan 
maidens* mightly warriors who can take on 
the form of giant swans or fighters in magical 
armor of copper/cmcrald alloy at will. 

Bdntra will not surrender the cup symbol. 
She fears change and knows that the removal 
of the symbol means the end of her beauty 


and power. She tempts the PCs with a life of 
eternal youth and luxury. 

When the PCs try to take the symbol, Belo- 
tra uses her power of fascination on them, an 
extremely powerful charm spell. When she 
wills it f all within 120 feet of her must make a 
saving throw vs. Spells at -7 (only Ambriel 
and her charmed elves arc immune). Those 
who succumb to her charm desire only to re 
main in the green realm at peace Male uhar- 
acters begin to slowly polymorph into trees 
and female character* into swan maidens 
The complete transformation fakes one turn 
(HI rounds). 

The swan maidens change into warriors to 
guard the symbol and to engage anyone who 
resists Belntra*s power. 

If all the characters are charmed or if those 
who resist are seriously outclassed by Bdotra 
and her swan maidens, the DM may want to 
bring in the "cavalry" if the PCs did nor fight 
with Ambriel, the clven queen appears and 
will join the battle on the PCs side along with 
Id20 of her elves. To counter this, Belotra's 
gargantuan treams (if noi slain) arrive in 
three rounds. Let Lhe players control Ambriel 
and her elves. 

When one of the PCs rakes the symbol, Bc- 
lotra's control over the realm ends. She be 
gins to age rapidly and loses her beauty and 
power of fascination in three rounds, but con 
tinues to fight for another seven rounds. Fas 
cinated characters revert to normal at the 
same rate they changed Meanwhile, the 
realm goes through an accelerated seasonal 
cycle that literally rips if to shreds in spurts of 
frantic growth and decay. 

After a total of 10 rounds she collapses and 
dies; the swan maidens flee in the shape of 
swans; and the gargantuan treants freeze in 
place as massive oaks. 

Bdm ra: AC -15; HD 55**, hp 250; MV 
12Q'(W): #AT 2 dagger; D 2-12; Save F 
36. ML 11; AL N; XP 32,000; SA the 
power of fascination; SD75% anti-magic 

Seven Swan Maidens: AC 4; HD 14**, hp 
63; MV t2n'(40 # ); #AT 1 sword; D 
2d8 + 5; Save F 14, ML 10; AL N; XP 
3500; SA +9 to hit; SD 35% anti-magic. 

7. Back to the Green Henge 

Ambriel escorts the party back to the green 
henge, through the renting ruins or the realm. 
Yet, as the characters watch* the land begins 
to renew itself around Ambriel. A green car 
pet of new growth spreads outward from the 
realm's new Guardian, 


8 








The Red Realm 



Encounter Setting 

The red henge leads to the realm of Anal or. 
His symbol is the stylized arrow of iron; his 
realm the mystical analog of Mars (not the 
planet, but a magical setting based on the 
writings of medieval magicians). 

The red realm is a test of the fighting prow 
ess of characters, so this setting favors direct 
action and combat. Tb gain the symbol of the 
realm, the PCs must overcome suffering and 
the horrors of war; yet prove that they art not 
mindless fighting machines, but true war 
riors who fight only when necessary 

Encounter Key 

1, The Fiery 1 Halls 


Oppressive scarlet heat surrounds you like 
an oven. Flickering flames swirl and 
scurry around massive rivulets in the red- 
hot iron of the corridor's glowing walls, 
floor and high, vaulted ceiling. From 
where you stand, you peer through the 
dam:mg heat to see an intersection with 
another, narrower corridor and beyond 
that a great iron door at the end of the 
hall 


The red-hot iron of the hall will cause harm to 
characters who are not protected from fire by 
spoils, rings, potions or other magics. Unpro 
tected characters can walk on the floor for one 
turn before their boots bum away. Every turn 
that a character's bare skin touches the burn 
ing iron, that character takes Id It) points uf 
heat damage. 

Note ihat normal movement rales and ap 
proximate delays arc marked on the map (in 
turns) to help the DM. The building's ex 
treme heat makes any exertion difficult, Be 
cause of this, the maximum movement rate 
for unprotected characters in the castle is only 
three times the usual turn movement race. 
For example, a character that normally 
moves 12G7tum can run at a speed of'1607 
turn (which would equal 67round). The 
movement rate per turn is not affected. 

The two side corridors lead to empty, but 
ornate towers of burning iron. 

2. The Cathedral of Carnage 


There is no relief from the heat as you part 
the tapestry of flaming iron mesh before 
you. Sculptured iron pillars, like great fi 
ery fists, punch their way skyward, 


clenching immense flaming swords to 
support the glowing roof. On the far wall, 
flames dance around a great door while 
frozen imagers wage an endless war. 


The flame wolf, a gigantic wolf with hair of 
curling flames, lies in wait here. It can 
breathe flame like a dragon. An unprotected 
character who hits a Flame Wol f does normal 
damage to the wolf, but takes IdlO points of 
damage from the intense heat. 

The flame wolf i* the watchdog* always 
aware of intruders. During battle, its howling 
alerts Malkar It attacks with surprise from 
behind the pillars* breathing lire as the char 
acters mass at the entrance. Preferring to hit 
and run. it bides, then lunges out to flame the 
intruders. 

Flame Wolf; AC -6; HD 2* # ; hp 100; MV 
i80'(60'}; #AT l bite or breath; D 10-60 or 
hp; Save F22; ML 10; AL C; XP 7250; 
SA ilame breath; SD Id 10 damage to un 
protected attackers. 

The hall beyond continues the theme and 
decoration of the Cathedral of Carnage. 


9 









The Red Realm 


3. Malkar the Warrior 


A moai of acrid, blazing blood laps 
against the* flaming iron walls, A tall war 
rior wielding a fiery two-handed sword 
and wearing crimson tournament armor 
blocks the narrow bridge and i-he door be 
yond it. A burning light blazes through 
the eye slits of his dosed visor. 


Malkar the Warrior, the loyal keeper of the 
Castle of Burning Iron! obeys the Immortals' 
charge to repd the Caruifex. He believes the 
PCs to be the Camifex in disguise and will die 
before he lets them through to the Haunted 
Battlefield. 

The seven foot deep fiery moat is filled with 
corrosive blood. If a character falls in the 
moat, the corrosive fluid will do 2d30 points 
of damage each round of immersion and an 
additional IdlO points of damage after leav 
ing the moat, To climb out of the moat , char 
acters must roll less than their Dexterity plus 
one on ld2G. 

Malkar tries to force his foes into the moat. 
He does rhb by a special tripping attack 
whteh does no damage; but if he hits, the foe 
must roll under half (rou nded up) its Dexter 
ity on ld20 or fall into the moat. 

Any fire based attacks against Malkar ac 
tually add to his hit points* Hence, a 20 die 
fireball could increase his hit points by 20-120 
points. All cold based attacks do double dam 
age. 

When Malkar is reduced to 0 hit points, a 
lOdlf) fireball is released that harms all 
wiihin 120 feet. A successful saving throw vs. 
Dragon Breath reduces the damage by half. 

Malkar: AC -8; HD 33"*; hp 151); MV 
120'(40'): #AT 2 sword; D 3d6 + 10 each; 
Save F 33; AL L; XP 20,500; SA tripping 
attack, 10d!0 fireball a? death; SD fire at 
tacks increase hit points. 

4. The Haunted Battlefield 


Outside the castle, an immense battle 
rages without beginning or end On one 
hand, the field is littered with corpses; on 
the other, mounted knights charge 
through mushroom pillars of flame and 
metal war machines belch gouts of lury 
into endless ranks of ptkemen. 


If the PCs look closely, they will find that the 
combatants are Lransluccnt, spectral - just 
like ghosts The PCs and the panoramic bat 
tle cannot interact with each other. When the 


PCs have moved at least 200 feet from the 
castle, they see the following; 


In the distance, a great war chariot races 
about, always seeking the place of greatest 
carnage. 


5. The War Machine 

Before the PCs find Anator, they wilt en 
counter the Kirekan. a mindless biological 
w f ar machine which attacks the adventurers. 


A mountain of flesh, moving on countless 
legs, waving m uncountable collection of 
mismatched but deadly weapons thunders 
over a rise and straight towards you 


The Kirekan is a lesson in knowing when it is 
best not la fight. The Kirekan constantly 
moves when waging war, for it is most effec 
tive when charging through massed ranks of 
foes. It can bring multiple attacks to bear on 
any foe who stands too close as it passes. Ho- 
werver. it cannot change direction quickly 
and must make long, wide turns. Avoiding 
the Kirekan is the best way to defeat it. Once 
the Kirekan discovers the PCs, it will con 
tinue to attack them until they reenter the 
casde. 

The Kirekan: AC 5; HD 88; hp 400; MV 
150'(50'); #AT 6 weapons/opponem; D 3- 
18 each: Save F 36. ML 12; AL C; XP 
19,500 (9,750 if rhe PCs use avoidance 
tactics). 

6, Anator the Charioteer 


A tall, ruddy, muscular warrior wuh 
blood-red hair t garbed in a suit of gleam 
ing steel reins in the straining armored 
steeds who draw' his chariot of sted. carne- 
lian and wormwood. His eyes, like icy 
blue diamonds, freeze you where you 
stand while the massive roan horses 
champ their bits and snort acrid smoke. 


The action of the Kirekan has drawn the at 
tention of rhe charioteer, Anator, Guardian of 
the red realm and caretaker of the iron arrow 
that the PCs need. If asked, Anator willingly 
surrenders the iron arrow. The thought of ihe 
Garnifex s endless carnage appeals to his 
warped mind. However. instead of handing 
his symbol to the requestor, he hurls it like a 
javelin for Id 10+24 points of damage and 
then begins a savage attack on the PCs. He 
Fights for fouF rounds and then rides off 


laughing madly, leaving his blood warriors 
behind. 

Each time Anator is hit, his blood spills to 
the ground to create a 9th level fighter lord. 
The fighter has a morale of 12 and will imme 
diately attack the PCs. 

Anator: AC -16; HD 55"*; hp 250; MV 
12(V(4l>'); #AT 2 sword; D 4d8 + 24 each; 
Save F 36; ML 11 f AL C, XP 42,500; 5A 
+ 14 to hit; SD see above. 

Two chariot steeds: AC 0; HD II*; hp 50; 
MV I80 f (60'); #AT 1 fire breath; D per 
hp; Save F 11; ML 11; AL C; XT 1900. 

Fighter lords; AC 2; HD 9*: hp 40; MV 
60'(2$); #AT 1 sword; D 2d82; Save F 9; 
ML 12; AL C; XP 1600; SA ^4 to hit. 

Anatur's chariot contains a magical chest. 
Inside die cheat, each PC can find a magical 
weapon, piece of armor, or shield of the char 
acter's choice. The item will be enchanted to 
+ 5 but will have no special magical powers, 
Hence, a fighter might find a + 5 sword while 
a cleric finds a +5 mace and a thief a +5 
knife shield. 

7, Return to the Red Henge 

Thr PCs must return to the henge through 
the Castle of Burning Iron. Before they enter 
the castle, there is a 1-4 chance (on Ld6) that a 
huge red dragon (with ihe conscience that 
Anator lacks) will confront the PCs It can 
sense ihe iron arrow and will try to carry off 
the bearer to the realm's distant reaches. 

Huge red dragon: AC -5; HD 20****; hp 90; 
MV 36OT120*); #AT I bire/5 mhers; 
D4d8 + 8/ldl2+2 each; Save F 36; ML 
11; AL C; XP 9575; SA fire breath. 


10 







The Black Realm 



Encounter Setting 

The black hcrtge leads to the realm of Sil- 
charde. who resides in a black onyx pyramid 
in the midst of a primordial swamp, Sil- 
ch aide's svmbol is a triangle made of lead. 

The black realm is dominated by gloom, 
death, and darkness. While this setting favors 
direct action, there are some encounters 
where role-playing could help. 

Encounter Key 

i. The Primal Jungle 


Emerging from the- black hengc, you are 
on a hill overlooking a lush primal jungle. 
Beyond the jungle is a vast swamp that 
seems to go on forever In the middle of 
the swamp is a large island. A dark build 
ing of some kind sits on the island. 

It appears to be twilight now. A large 
flock of black birds drifts ominousl y across 
the sky, and the aroma of rotting vegeta 
tion hangs heavy in the humid air. 


Once in the jungle., Lhe PCs find Lhe vegeta 
tion on the floor is several feet thick The 
black trees are very- high and allow little light 


m penetrate through to the floor. Except for 
the chirps of insects, all is silent. 

After the PCs have gone about 100 yards, 
the silence is broken by an agonized shriek 
from behind a thicket of weeds If the PCs in 
vestigate* read them the following: 


In a clearing on the other side or the 
thicket, a huge lizard-like creature is hold 
ing the bleeding body of a smaller version 
of itself between its jaws. On the opposite 
side of the clearing is a group uf branches 
containing several round gray objects. 

The creature tosses the lifeless b*xlv 
into the weeds and begins to sniff the air. 


The large creature is a garganrua basilisk* 
and the round objects are its eggs. The 
smaller creature is an ordinary basil tsk which 
unfortunately wandered too near the gargan 
tuan nest, the garganrua has just killed it. 

Gargantua basilisk: AC 4; HD 49* *; hp 195; 
MV 120'(40'); #AT 1 bite + gaze: D 4-40 
+ petrification; Save F25; ML 11: AL N; 
XP 27.500, 

The garganma basilisk is now in a killing 
frenzy, and it smells more intruders If the 
PCs make any movement toward it or 


remain where they are for one round, the bas 
ilisk spots them and attacks. It fights to Lhe 
death. (The DM should note that there is not 
enough natural light for the basilisk to see its 
own reflection in a mirror.) 

If the PCs kill the basilisk, they may exam 
ine its nest There are three cracked gray 
eggs Two are infertile. The third breaks open 
if disturbed, and a tiny basilisk crawls out. 
The newborn is harmless; if unmolested, it 
scampers into the jungle, 

2. The Great Serpenl 

Before leaving the jungle, the party encount 
ers Ombiassa* the Great Serpent. 


Before you, a gigantic python slithers oui 
of the trees It has an oversized head, and 
a gray film covers its eyes. Its body, which 
seems to be about 150 feet lung, is covered 
in brown and black scales. Five smaller 
pythons, each about 20 feet long, encircle 
its body and writhe back and forth. 

"Something I can help you with?" the 
large snake asks. 


Obviously Gmbiam is intelligent. He is also 
blind He relies an the five smaller snakes to 
do his seeing for him, and he is in mental con- 


11 










The Black Realm 


tail with them at all times. Ombiassa does his 
utmost to conceal his disability from the PCs. 

Ombiassa: AC -8; HD 50; hp i20*(40j; #AT 
3 squeezes; D 6-60 each; Save F 36; ML 
11; AL N; XP 9750. 

Rock pvthons (5): AC 6; HD 5*; hp 20* 19, 
25, 24, 22; MV 90'(30 # ); MT I btte/1 
squeeze; D l-4/2-8; Save F 3; ML 8; AL 
N; XP 300, 

Ombiassa wants to eat the PCs. He engages 
them in conversation in an attempt to pm 
them at ease. He has no useful information 
for the PCs, 

IT the PCs show signs of moving on or 
when Ombiassa tires of the conversation, he 
attacks. He plans to kill as many of the PCs as 
possible and cat them at his leisure. The 
smaller snakes avoid combat unless attacked 
and always remain within 10 feet of their 
muter. 

If one of the smaller snakes is killed, Om 
biassa attacks at -1 If rwo are killed, he at 
tacks at *2, and so forth. If all five are killed, 
he attacks at -8. 

3, The Black Swamp 


Once out of the jungle* you see a vast 
swamp stretching in all directions. On top 
of the water is a thin layer of vegetation 
which has rotted and turned black- Many 
large cypress trees grow out of the water 
In the distance is an island with a small 
pyramid made of black stone. 


The water is about waist deep. While wading 
through the murky swamp, PCs are able to 
move at only half their regular speed. 

The safest way to wade through the water 
is in single file behind a leader, stepping only 
where it has proven safe. Any PC not moving 
cautiously has a chance of stepping into 
quicksand. The chance is a roll of ! on ld6 
per turn. A PC trapped in quicksand sink in 
three rounds unless rescued. Heavily encum 
bered PCs. such as most fighters, will sink in 
two rounds while lightly encumbered PCs, 
like most magic users, sink in four rounds. 

While wading through the swamp, the PCs 
hear a loud bellow coming from under some 
cypress trees about 50 yards ahead. A pair of 
huge black dragons, one slightly larger than 
the other, emerge. The larger of the pair bel 
lows again and flies toward the party. 


Huge black dragons (2): AC-2; HD 14****; 
hp 59,63; MV JSO'pO'), 365 f {120') (ly 
ing; #AT 1 bite/5 others; D 2dlG+8/ 
ld8 + 3 each; Save F 36; ML 10; AL C; 
XP 5150; SA acid breath. 

Hie larger male is trying to court the smaller 
female and attempts to impress her by de 
stroying the intruders while she watches. The 
dragon first attempts to swoop and capture 
three PCs. It uses its breath attack* then hov 
ers and attacks as many PCs as it can* using 
its tail and wings to attack PCs it car reach. 
Subsequent attacks are as dramatic and as 
showy as he can make them. The female only 
attacks if threatened by a PC or if the male 
appears to be in trouble. She first attacks with 
her breath from a distance, then flies over 
and attacks in a way similar to the male. The 
male fights to the death; the female flies away 
if she loses more than half her hit points. 

4, The Hag of Time 

Before the parly reaches the island of the 
black pyramid, read them the following: 


Suddenly you sec a hideous old crone ris 
ing out of the swamp a few yards ahead of 
you. She looks incredibly old and is 
dressed in dripping black rags. She 
beckons you with outstretched hands. 
"Come, my friends" she croaks, her face 
distorted in a grotesque toothless grin. 
"Join me in paradise! 11 


This is Zagriona, an ancient monster unique 
to this realm. Believing that true peace can be 
found only in old age. she is determined to re- 
emit more converts; too bad if they die in the 
process. She hides in the bottom of the 
swamp waiting for passers-by* 

Though intelligent, Zagriona does not en 
gage in any meaningful conversation. She 
continues to shriek and cackle about the para 
dise that awaits them if they join her. She at 
tacks any PC she can reach with her deadly 
hands; each touch causes a PC Lo age 2-20 
years, lose 2-20 hit points, and lose one life 
energy level. She pursues the party relent 
lessly and attacks until she is killed. 

Zagriona; AC -It; HD 33**; hp 150; MV 
t20 r (4O'); #AT 2 touches; D 2-20 + age 2- 
2(1 years + energy drain each; Save F 33; 
ML 10, AL N; XP 15,500; SD 75% Anti- 
Magic. 


5, Silcharde the Black 


The island is about nine feet above the wa 
ter level and is about 250 feet across. It is 
covered with cypress trees and black pop 
pies. The island seems to he infested with 
toads, bats, and moles. 

In the center of the island is a pyramid 
made of onyx, about 27 feet to a side. In 
the middle of one face of the pyramid is a 
single large opening. 


The pyramid is actually a crypt housing Sil 
charde, the Guardian of the black realm. In 
side the crypt is an obsidian coffin he uses for 
a throne. 

On entering the crypt, the PCs find Sal- 
chardc sitting on the coffin, his head on his 
chin, lost in thought. Hundreds of ravens mi 
motionless on perches that line the walls from 
floor to ceiling 

Silcharde looks like a tall emaciated man 
with a dark complexion* Him akin is scaly, his 
body abnormally hairy. He wears obsidian 
scale armor and wields a voulge. Silcharde 
spends all of his time brooding on the mys 
teries of life and death and resents any distur 
bance of hh meditations. "Leave! " he shouts 
at the PCs. "Or I will destroy you!" If the 
PCs hesitate or persist with questions, he 
snarls sarcastically, "Very well then. Tell me, 
wise ones, is this world a manifestation of my 
will or merely my idea?" 

Regardless of their response, Silcharde 
calls ihem fools and announces that they 
must die for Lhcir ignorance. On each suc 
cessful hit, a victim must make a saving 
throw vs. Death in addition to taking 3-35 
points of damage. After two rounds of com 
bat* the ravens begin to scoop at the PCs. 
They do no damage* but their distractions 
cause the PCs to attack at -2. 

By defeating Silcharde, the PCs get his 
symbol, the lead mangle. 

Silcharde: AC-12. MV t?0 f {W); HD 55**; 
hp 25(1; # AT 2 voulge; D 3-30 each + save 
vs. Death, Save F 36; ML 12; AL C; XP 
32,050; SD 75% Ami-Magic. 

In Sikhardc's coffin are 10 black dia 
monds. If the PCs take them and laLer have 
them appraised by a knowledgeable gems- 
mith, they find each is worih 100.000 gp. 

Note; The trip back to the black henge be 
uneventful, although the DM is free lo have 
the parry encounter any monsters from this 
section they previously avoided or didn't 
quite finish off. 


12 






The Library Clues 


1. In the pits of Banishment, Blow the horn at the doorway to 
Cannifex Castle (quote prom the Codex of the planes, VOL i) 

2* the entrance to the seven realms lies on guardian mesa (the 
traveler s masters Set, VoL iv> 

3, Beauty lives at the centCR of the garden (Charms of the 
green Realm, By Etienne d'amBceville) 

4* Canniflaiism is a feedrng ham common to the pus of Banish 
ment, practiced By some of its victims, such as Carmfex (ex 
otic interplanar foods. tome XXXIII) 

Ram bows ace a means of traveling in the sphere of colors, 
flut let it Be known there is no such thing as a pot of gold sit- 
tinci at one end. flore of the Seven Realms, ay prince vanse- 
ne Vlaardoen) 

6. Carmfex were notorious foe experimenting new magic ef 
fects on them prisoners. (positive thinking in spell Re 
search; sc Roll fragment 3456-xz) 

7, Call the sea-foam steeds and they will answer as long as the 
plane is white. (scrififlled note in the coven of a moldy tome) 

8, the art of flying and moving through the ether is a delicate 
thing. It will not always function in other worlds, such as 
the seven Realms, ftome on the followers of the 3m, fly 
EnaOna) 

9. gtocy to the redwood fO r its tree door will lead to a secret of 
seven Realms (unknown song in the encyclopedia of the Bauds) 

10, msanity Remains when the level of magic encompasses ail 
that was even leanm Before. r, myself, and others such as 
Carmfex have Been afflicted with this utter folly,. (Life of 
prince moment) 

t i. ,vu is not what it appeals to Be, Light Remains aften darkness, 
ife springs forth after death, hope sus&sists after o&livion. 
this, my son, is a universal law affecting even the seven 
Realms, (load rncQreqoR's teachings, enguaved skull XXVII. 
dated 1090) 

12. Of all the constructions 1 have even seen, nevee did 1 find 
such a faBulous map. Che architecture of Castle Carmfex de 
fies even the mind of the cleverest dwaaf. (Life of a Castellan, 
sy hippolito de fedonas) 

13. m the Realm of Blue know ye that Justice awaits Beyond the 
king s palace (Essay on the purpose of life, unmarked scroll). 

14. Of al! the laws of navigation, my veneRaele uncle mentioned 
an oHscurc one I never was aBie to fully comprehend. he said 
once the Seven Oates appeal, there is no turning Back,.. 
Treaty of Exploitation, fly qunntacr Rolfsen) 

11 in the Realms of the outer planes exist things of power un- 
speakaBle, I once envisioned a fonress of flames.,. One must 


not Unger in such dwelling, (dreams and nightmares. Vol. I) 

16. Qotd is pure flut hand to find, a place exists in utter dark 
ness wheoe a castle gleams amidst oelivion. Its walls are 
made of gold* and gems are But common ORavel (Che Lost 
worlds, By aitch g. wans) 

17. Che sea-girt isle holds the hourglass, this item is of great im- 
poiitance tn the would of white, fUnearthed fantasia, fly the 
guild of Wizards) 

18. i once contacted some creature of the outer planes and it 
told me the Biggest magical item treasure was in Castle 
Carmfex, sut i was nevee aele to figure where this is (trea 
sure hunters guide, fly pRince Jaguar) 

19. he no t to the lawq i ver, f or it may e Ring u pon thee the wrath 
of the entire Realm of Blue for seven generations (giantnan 
arcane Code) 

20. there was once a Black Staff in the world, its powers are im 
mense, eut foR the safety of men. n must m destroyed (Ori 
gins of magic, fly the Baron of Igorov) 

21. the Best disguises are often inhuman, a legend says that 
Cam if ex could imitate nearly anything without much 
chance of Being discovered. (Thieves' manual, unsigned) 

22. past jungle and swamp rn a strange world of Black waits the 
Black master. Beware, ye who stride Beyond, (scripture 
from a torn piece of metal, dated 3,000 years ago) 

23. time is such an outdated concept,.. Look for example at 
some otheR worlds; although things exist, ft is always the 
same day (diary of a time IraveleR) 

24. the greatest arrow that was ever made is now in the hands 
of a chariot driver* somewhere in an outer plane where col 
ons are the prime matter (moldy letter from one collector 
to another) 

26. It is wise not to Blow horns at the entrance of a castle, espe 
cially if one does not know what awaits inside (Wise guide to 
Outer planes adventuring, page 1) 

27. It is wise to think Before acting. What is Best for all may not 
Be good for one (Wise guide to Outer planes adventuring, 
page 2), 

28. It is wise to pay attention to those things that exist bui are 
dead as well. What Breathes and talk is not always alive (Wise 
guide to Outer planes adventuring, page 3). 

29. The closed door: such a useless concept, it is so much fun to 
prove the fluildeR of a door that there is always someone 
who will get past. Even the gray door in the pits of Banish 
ment, all it needs is seven magical tokens to open - then 
why Build it? (tome on halflinq philosophy) 


13 



Players Aid 2: The Septahenge 




.I'A'Wm-vIA** vit^ ^- L MS&M.L . **/ __^ /^ 






; T9B6 TSH Inc All Righis Reserved. Primed in U S.A 
























L' _ 




Ambriel 


[Giant tree: 


entrance to Garden of Peltght ;> meadow-garden border 


966 TSR ine. M Rights Reserved. Printed in U S A 





































°1996 TSR Inc. Afl flighis Reserved Primed in U S A, 
























































sand dunes 


water 


DM Map 7: The Yellow Realm 

/KaN 


'Cave of Winds 


W , J&h: 


MorrlorVs 

/throne 


^-yeJIow henge 


'descend to desert 


Hyperbrus 


: T*j '"if? 


. 


¦A'i:' 

v - .V- !v ' • 


Vr;.^ 

. 

¦- Vi- - : - 

' * 


1, Cave opening near yellow henge 

2. Slight rise in floor - slippery rod 

3, 5, 7. Characters hit wail for 1d20 
points of damage. 

4. Outcroppings {can possibly be us 
to stop momentum) 

6. Small pool of water 

8. Hole In cave roof; daylight shines 
Tree root hangs into cave from he 
edge. 

9. Fall to desert floor - characters t 
6d10 points of damage. 


1986 TSR Inc All Rights Reserved Primed in U.S.A 











The Blue Realm 



Encounter Setting 

The Blue henge leads to the Realm of Valera- 
tros. His symbol is a bronze square, 

The characters have several decisions to 
make As long as they use good common 
sense Lind don't attack everything in sight, 
they should eventually experience the posi 
tive aspects of the realm* while avoiding most 
of the negative aspects. 

Aspects of this Adveaturc 

This section favors role-playing over direct 
action With role-playing and a little luck, the 
encounters should prove easy Otherwise, 
this section can be completely hostile, with an 
abundance of combat. 

Encounter Key 

1. The Corn King 


Beyond the blue hengc lie acre upon acre 
of fertile fields Foods of all kinds grow in 
abundance, com and rice and wheat all 
side by side. Orchards of apples and pears 
give way to patches of raspberries and 
strawberries. The sweet seem of citrus 
wafts toward you on the warm breezes 
Never have you seen all these foods grow 
ing in such close proximity 

In the opposite direction from the blue 
hence* you sec a palace of blue stone. 


The characters definitely encounter Cor 
oman the Com King* before reaching the 
palace, Coroman is a man dressed as a scare 
crow Stray bits of grain and hay stick out 
from his clothing. He blocks the characters' 
path and prevents them from going any far 
ther. If the characters ask him what he wants, 
Coroman replies: 


"Nothing much, just a bit of your blood to 
water the soil/' 


What Coroman says is literally true. He 
needs a few drops of each character's blood to 
fertilize the soil. The blood is part of the ritual 
involving Coroman He is the spirit of the 
crops; each year he dies, is buried, and then is 
reborn, in the same cycle ofdpath and rebirth 
as the crops. 

The sacrifice is not merely a token. Each 
character takes 1-10 points of damage when 
his blood is given to the soil. Coroman firmly 
stands in their way until each of the charac 
ters has made the sacrifice; they are unable to 
pass him. If they attack and kill Coroman ( 
the crops wither and die before their eyes. 
They rot and blow away as dust by the time 
the characters reach the palace. 

Coroman: AC 5; MV 120' (40'); HD 20; hp 
90; MAT 2 club. Drug 2-12 each; Save as 
Fighter 36; ML 11; AL N; XP 2000 

2* The Lapis Lazuli Palace 


You see a large* many-roomed palace built 
entirely of lapis lazuli. The palace gate, a 
massive 20-fnot-wide door of bronze, ap 
pears to be unguarded. 


The palate rooms are all normal. There are 
bedrooms, dining rooms, a kitchen, and 
other rooms normally found in a palace. 
Since this is not really a dungeon setting, the 
rooms are not detailed. 

The only unusual thing about the palace is 
the inhabitants; all have pale blue skin and 
dark blue hair. They comprise the usual cour 
tiers. scribes* servants, guards, and such. 
None of them attacks the characters, so the 
statistics arc not given. If a character attacks 
one of them, he wins without raking any 


damage. No experience points are given for 
such encounters. 

If the characters made the blood sacrifice 
and did not kill Coroman, the retainers here 
are friendly. They direct the characters to the 
quickest route to King Valcratros, whose her 
alds announce the arrival of the characters. 

If Coroman has been slain, the retainers 
flee from the characters in terror. Their fear is 
sn great they cannot speak or gesture if cap 
tured* and thus arc nf no help whatsoever. 
While enroutc to the king's chambers, the 
characters encounter a huge sapphire 
dragon. Note that this takes place only if Cor- 
oman has been killed. 

Huge sapphire dragon, AC -4; MV 360' 
(120'); HD IB****; hp 81; MAT 1 hite/5 
others; Dmg 3d 10 + 8 each; Save as F36; 
ML 10; AL L; XP 6600; SA lightning or 
vaporize breath 

3* King Valeratros 


At the heart of the palace the king awai ts. 
He is a giant of a man, with pale blue skin 
and bright blue hair. The ringlets of his 
beard are also blue. His royal robes are 
sometimes the blue of a dear summer sky* 
and sometimes that of a stormy sea. 
Bronze and gold set with precious gems 
make his crown. His throne is carved from 
a single sapphire, and behind it hangs an 
exquisite blue tapestry embroidered with 
a bronze square. 


If the blood sacrifice was made. Valcratros of 
fers to heal the characters of all wounds and 
give them any other needed clerical assist 
ance. He informs them that the bronze 
square* the symbol of the realm, is in the safe 
keeping of Sorabeth the Lawgiver, whose 
chambers are in the courtyard just beyond 


19 









The Blue Realm 


the throne room. Behind the tapestry arc two 
doors nflapis lazuli. Valeratros points to the 
right door, which leads to Sorabtith. 

If Co mm an has been slain, Vale rat ros 
looks sadly at the characters and says, 


"Through your ignorance and anger, you 
have brought famine and devastation to 
my once fair land. Are you willing to undo 
what you have dime, and regain our 
trust? 1 ' 


If the characters do not agree to help, he in 
forms them that without their cooperation he 
can neither give them the realm's symbol nor 
allow' Them to leave. 

If they still refuse, he attacks 

Valeratros AC -12: MV J20' (40 1 ); HD 
33*****; hp 150; *AT 2 mace or 1 spell; 
Ding 3-18 each; Save as G33; ML II; AL 
L* XP 30,500; SA all clerical spells; SD 
75% Ami-Magic 

If Valeratros is slain, his body and all castle 
retainers disappear. The characters discover 
two huge lapis lazuli doors behind the tapes- 
try If they go through, they find themselves 
in the courtyard of Sorabcth the Lawgiver 
(see encounter 4). 

If the characters do agree to help, Valera- 
tros proclaims; 


"1 do not blame you for what you have 
done, for you do not know the ways of this 
realm. The body of the slain Corotnan 
must be buried in the fields. You must tra 
vel to the field where he lies and complete 
the cycled 


Hr points to the left lapis door. The charac 
ters must go through it to bury Coroman. 
When it is opened, they see nothing but dark 
ness, When ihev step through, however, they 
find themselves at the same spot where they 
killed Coroman. His body has been laid out 
on a bed of straw A hole has already been 
dug on the other side of the straw bed Imme 
diately after the last bit of dirt is thrown on 
the grave, the sky instantly clears and the sun 
beams down upon the characters. Crops 
spring from the ground, looking especially 
healthy in the spot where he was buried. Al 
ter about five minutes, all the surrounding 
fields are healthy and growing. An ecstatic 
shout breaks the air as Coromafi leaps from a 
nearby field of wheat, about 200 feet from the 
PCs. 


"And thus is the way with all things. The 
cycle starts anew, and those who err learn 
new wisdom." 


Coroman then ducks back into the ground 
and disappears. When the characters turn to 
go back to the castle, they see a huge lapis 
door hovering before them. Passing through 
ti leads them to the court of Sorabeth the 
Lawgiver. 

Tf the characters return to the castle, they 
find it empty In the throneroom, only the 
right-hand door remains behind the tapestry. 
Passing through it leads to the court of Sora- 
beth the Lawgiver* 

4. Sorabeth the Lawgiver 

When the characters step through the right- 
hand door, they find themselves in an open 
courtyard. The inner walls are covered with 
lush, green vines sprouting tiny bluebell-like 
flowers. Poplar and beech trees provide 
pleasant shade. All is peaceful and content. 
Overhead fly a mating pair of Archons. In 
the middle of the counyard* seated on a 
judge's bench of turquoise, is Sorabeth the 
Lawgiver, 

She is dressed in stately blue robes that drape 
loosely about her. Her hair is the color of wheat; 
her eyes are sky-blue. She is severe and uncom 
promising, yet fair and honest. She is incorrupt 
ible. She eyes the characters with a practiced 
look of firmness and judgment. 

tf the characters have cooperated with 
Goroman (or at least buried his body and re 
generated the earth) and with Valeratros, 
Sorabeth clears her throat and speaks. 


"Travelers, welcome. You arc here for the 
symbol oFour realm, and think it a simple 
task to retrieve it for your own devices, it 
is not so simple as you think. Before you 
may leave here with the item, you must 
prove yourselves worthy or our honor." 

Sorabeth rises and walks to the charac 
ters, passing by each one as she continues. 

"1 have a simple test for you, a test of 
knowledge and thought. You have proven 
your understanding of the ways of our 
land. Now I ask you to prove your under 
standing oflogic, as that too is a kind of 
law. 

"Assume that you stand at a fork in the 
roadway Two men, brothers by their ap 
pearance, stand before you* one on each 
path. You hail them* and ask which path 
leads to the palace. They respond with the 


information that one of them always lies 
and (he other always tells the truth. 

"Knowing what you do, what is the one 
question you could ask either man. and 
know that the answer is correct?" 


The correct question is* "Which path would 
your brother tell me is the correct one?" 
Since one always lies a he would answer with 
the incorrect path. Since the other always 
tells the truth, he would also answer with the 
incorrect path. Allow the PCs as many tries 
as they need to arrive at the correct solution. 

AfLcr they have answered correctly. Sora- 
btth purses her lips, reaches into the folds of 
her robe, and takes out the bronze square. 
She moves toward the party 

Following her lead, the two Archons land 
and move toward each character in turn, touch 
ing first the forehead. then the hands. As this 
motion is completed* the character knows in 
stantly that he has been granted the Gift of the 
Archonis. This is the ability to create the Archon 
Flame-Sword, which docs 4-32 points of dam 
age to any creature hit, including those undead, 
hit only by magical wrapons, and those of other 
planes. All character classes can create this 
sword, even clerics and magic-users. Once cre 
ated, it lasts for three turns. 

If the characters have killed Valeratros, 
Sorabeth and the Archons are waiting for 
them when they enter the courtyard. They at 
tack immediately. If the characters kill Sora 
beth and the Archons* (hey find (he bronze 
square in her purse, 

2 Archons: AC -6; MV 360' (J30 # ); HD 
20*"*'*; hp 90; #AT l sword (male), 2 
heads/ 1 firc-brearh (female); Dmg 4-32 
(male). 3-30/3-30/4-24 (female); Save as 
C20; ML 11; AL L; XP 13,175; SA 
spells: (deport > holt of purity; SD immune to 
fire and poison (see Master's DM book, 
page 40), 

Sorabeth: AC -16; MV 120* (30'); HD 
44* * * * *; hp 200; #AT 2 swords of 1 spell; 
Dmg 3*30 rath; Save as F36; ML ] 1; AL 
L; XP 47,000; SA spells: firm fiM h*at f 
immunity, projected ttnugc, gras, SD 75% 
Anti-Magic. 

Once the characters have received the bronze 
square {and perhaps the Archons* Gift),the 
courtyard vanishes* and they find themselves 
before the lapis lazuli castle which is still 
empty. When they reach the henge, the Blue 
Realm vanishes, and they find themselves 
back on Guardian Mesa, 


20 









The White Realm 



3 mg "n * 


v*fjf sanlli'V 

M 1 HnF 'n h* A 

nil 

liillillli 

B vJkV , f TJ 

f 9k- m If ft J h 1 

J t V i ul 1 

i'jfi 

fcitl 


Encounter Selling 

The white henge leads to the realm of Kerri- 
sar. Her symbol is a stylized hourglass made 
of silver. 

The White Realm is the mystical analog of 
the moon* The land is a magical selling based 
on the writings of the medieval philosophers, 
nm the actual moon. Magic and theft are pan 
of the ideal of the land ., Spells are more w itch 
craft than magic. Illusions are more vision 
than hallucination. The characters must 
put their mist in the sea by riding the sea 
horses. They must fight the destructive forces 
of the White Realm to win the silver hour 
glass. and then escape the wrath of the hunt 
ress and her dogs. 

Aspects of this Adven ture 

This setting favors action over interaction 
with the island forces. There are several en 
counters, however, where role-playing is im 
portant. 


Encounter Key 
1. The Moonlit Sea 


The white hengc leads to a sea shore. The 
shoreline stretches right anti left as far as 
you can see, The whole scene has a curi 
ous* dream-like quality because it is lit 
only by the light of the full moon. The 
waves washing against the shore splash up 
misty foam, looking silvery in the moon 
light. Throught the foamy mists, in the di 
rection away from the hange, you can ju*st 
make out an island across the water. 


One of the "tips" the characters discovered 
about the adventure told them to "Call I he 
sea-foam steeds and they will come." If the 
characters call out to the ocean lor the steeds, 
the sea'foam Forms into creamy white horses 
that can run on the water. The steeds are 
completely reliable They eannot be harmed. 
They take the characters directly to the is 
land, wait for them, then return them to the 
sea shore near the hengc 

While crossing the sea, there is a one in 
four chance (on idfi.) that the PCs encounter 
Antaeus, Guardian of the Shore. 

Astacus is a 25-foot tail merman with the 


pincers of a crab. He appears from under the 
sea and immediately attacks the characters, 
giving them just enough lime to draw their 
weapons The characters have no problem 
fighting while mounted on the sea-steeds; 
they cannor fall or be knocked off, 

Antaeus: AG -12; MV 180 r (60'); HD 30; hp 
135; #AT 2 pincers; Dmg 6-60 each; Save 
as Fighter 30; ML 11; AL N: XP 4750, 

The sea-steeds always remain in contact with 
the water. They stop once they reach the is 
land's shore* and refuse to move inland. 

2. Oak, Ash, Thorn, and the Path 

The island is covered with a Tores* of oak, 
ash, and thorn trees. The path on the island is 
twisting and indirect. In general* however, it 
wanders inward toward the center of the is 
land. The characters could pick up the path 
at several places where it loaches the island 
shore. It makes little difference where the 
characters join the path; sooner or later it 
leads them to the center of the island. 

When the characters find the path, there is 
a one on four chance (on ld6) of encounter 
ing two huge white dragons. These immedi 
ately attack 


21 


















The White Realm 


Huge White Dragons: AC *1; MV 360' 
(120'); HD 12****; hp 54 each. #AT 1 
bile/ 5 other; Dmg 2d8 + 8/ld8 + 2 each; 
Save as Fighter 36; ML JG* AL N; XP 
4300; SA cold breath, 

3. The Crystal Altar 


You see a woodland shrine, formed by 
nine large willow trees on the bank of a 
small river. Parallel to the clearing formed 
by the trees is a U-shaped bend in the 
river 

The focal point of the clearing is an al 
tar built of crystalline quartz. On the 
ground in from of the altar are hundreds 
of small ivory animals of various types. 
On top ol'ihe altar is a stylized silver hour' 
glass 


As soon as a character steps toward the altar, 
read the following. 


From the trees behind the altar steps a 
maiden, dad in a flowing, diaphanous 
gown. Her ivory skin is dappled with sun 
light filtering through the trees. Behind 
her stands a home, also white. Curiously, 
the maid s hair is a deep green, as is the 
horse s mane. Both she and the animal Fix 
you with their blood-red eyes You fed 
rooted to the spot. 

"1 am Kerriaar, Guardian of this place. 
1 know why you are here. 1 * She draws a 
silver bow, and nocks it with a silver ar 
row. Carefully, she draws a bead on the 
closest member of your party. "You have 
Lome for the hourglass, I care not Ibr your 
reasons. If you are determined to have ft, 
you must game for it " 

Still holding her aim, she gestures with 
her head "Over there, 200 feet distant, is 
a target. You and I shall test our prowess 
with bow and arrow. Whoevers shoot the 
best three out of five rounds wins the 
hourglass. Now choose your representa 
tive. 1 shall wait, 1 ' 

She continues staring at your group, 
not lowering her bow. 


If the characters refuse her challenge, they 
have to bargain for the silver hourglass, Ker- 
nsar is nor an easy mark, and has no inten 
tion ot parting with this easily. Money is of no 
importance to hen so offering gold or silver is 
useless. Kerrisar may, however, be willing to 
loan the hourglass to the party in exchange 
for one of the members* who must remain 
with her as a kind of security deposit, 


The characters should realize that there is a 
penalty for losing the archery match. If they 
do not ask her, Kerrisar offers no further in 
formation. However, if they should inquire 
about the future of the loser, she gives a low 
chuckle. In this case, read the following text. 


"Should you lose, I have the right to Fire 
one of my arrows into you. True enough* 
it may kill you. But equally true, it may 
help you. Neither you nor 1 know what 
will happen. If you refuse to accept this 
penalty I have no choice but to hunt you 
to the death.' 1 


If the party accepts the challenge and the 
terms of the penalty, the match begins. If the 
chosen PC wins the match (best three shots 
out of five), the party fakes the hourglass with 
Kerrisar s blessing. If the PC loses* and ac 
cepts the penalty, Kerrisar fires one of her ar 
rows into the PC (not at a vital area). For 
effects, see Kerrisar entry in the NPC's Sec 
tion, 

If the party did not ask about a penalty, 
went through with the match, and lost* Ker 
risar turns to the loser and says, 


"Now you must pay the penalty Stand 
and accept.'* 


With that, she fires one of her arrows into the 
loser as stated above. 

If the party asks about the penalty and 
refuses to accept it, Kerrisar swiftly mounts 
her horse and begins the hum. She fires ar- 
rows at the party members, and intends to ki] 
them all. Their only chance for the hourglass 
now is to kill her* or to distract her so that one 
of them can sneak back to the alter and steal 
it. As soon as she begins to move toward the 
party, her hounds (who until now have been 
waiting silently in the woods behind her) leap 
from their places and join the fray There are 
nine of them, white and green furred, with 
huge jaws and bIood*red eyes. They are 
highly trained not to kill, but to harry and 
herd. 

Kerrisar: AC -13; MV 120* (40*); HD 
39***; hp 175; #AT 2 arrows or sword; 
Dmg special or 3-18 each; Save as Fighter 
36, ML 10; AL N; XP 26,500; SA magi 
cal arrows; SD 50% Anti-Magic. 

Kcrrisars Arrows 

Each of her sis silver arrows has a random 
magical power Whenever she shoots a living 


person with one of them, one of the following 
things happens. 

1 * takes 6-60 points of damage 

2 " loses 1-10 years of age 

3 ** takes 9-90 points of damage 

4 ** turns ethereal for 1-10 turns 

5 - gains ability to recognize camifex no 

matter what current form it takes 

6 " random body part turns to silver 

(roll again on ld6) 

1 - head (fatal) 

2 - torso (fatal) 

3 ¦= left arm 

4 - right arm 

5 - left leg 

6 " right leg 

Organic material such as brains and lungs do 
not adapt to this change* and so the first two 
results are for all intents and purposes imme 
diately fatal. Muscle tissue, however, h not 
adversely affected. Silver limbs act just as 
normal ones regarding movement and dam 
age. 

Horse: AC -5; MV 240* (80*); HD 13*; hp 
60; MT 2 hooves/1 bite; Dmg MO/1-10/ 
1-6; Save as Fighter 13; ML 10; AL N; 
XP 2500; SD 25% Anti-Magic 

Hounds: AC 2; MV 240* (80'); HD 6*; hp 
27 each; #AT 1 bite; D 2*16; Save F6; ML 
10* AL N; XP 500; SD 25% Ami-Magic. 

3, Back to the White Henge 

The characters can once more ride the sea- 
foam steeds across the water. If they did not 
encounter Astacus on the trip to the island, 
they must encounter him now. 

When the players get back to the while 
henge* the island and the sea are covered in 
an all-pervading fog. Any attempt to return 
to the island or sea is fruitless. 


22 







The Yellow Realm 



Encounter Setting 

The yellow henge leads to the realm of 
Morih n who resides in a magnificent desert 
oasis. His symbol is a circle made of gold. 

The yellow realm is dominated by har 
mony. warmth, and friendship. This setting 
requires a balance of action and rolc-plaving. 
The P 1 Is will have to act fast to survive the 
Cave of the Winds t but good role-playing 
could gain them die help of Mnrilon. 

Encounter Key 

1- Sun Mountain 


Emerging front the yellow henge, you art- 
on the ledge of a mountain in the middle 
of a desert, The ledge h about 100 feet 
wide and 300 feet across. The desert floor 
seems to be 1,000 feet down. Off in the 
distance, in the direction away from the 
henge, you see an oasis. 

Nearby on the fedgr is the opening of a 
large cave. A few yards beyond that, you 
notice a place where it would be possible 
to safely dimb down to the desert floor 

A(r) you ponder your next move, your 
attention is drawn by a loud snort from 
the other side of the ledge. 

The source of the snort is a huge gold 
dragon* struggling to tick a wound in hia 
back that is just out of reach. The dragon 
sees you and says, "More of you? Come 
to finish me off, did you?" 


The dragon had been flattered by Hyperbius 
(from encounter 4) into posing for a statue, 
but when the dragon grew bored and tried to 
fly away, Hvpcrbius responded with a whack 
from his sword. The wound is minor, but the 
dragon's dignity is severely bruised He b in 
a very bad mood. 


huge gold dragon AC -6; HD 22*"'; hp 
100; MV 300'(10(V k 36O'(l20')fiymg; 
#AT I bite/5 others; D bd6 + 8/4d4 each; 
Save F36;MLJ1,AL L; XP 18,51)0; SA 
spells; SA fire or chlorine gas breath, 
spells 

First level: detect m&git. hold portal tight, protec 
tion from evil, ventriloquism 
Second level mirror image, locate object, knock, 
continual light, phantasmal force 
Third level: dtspd magic* haste, ft reball (x3) 
Fourth level; confusion, wall of firs (x3) 

Fifth level: Jtebimind, hold monster (x2) 

The dragon will continue trying to lick his 
wound, muttering under his breath and ig 
noring the part\ Tf the PCs move toward 
him, he will roar a warning. 

The dragon will only attack if the PCs at 
tack first, if the PCs can convince him they 
mean him no harm, the dragon will cau 
tiously allow a single PC to approach him and 
tend to his wound. If a PC gives him first aid, 
the dragon will sheepishly thank them and 
briefly converse with them before he flies 
away. He is too prideful to tell them what 
happened, saying it was only an accident, hut 
he can tell them that the Guardian resides in 
the dbtant oasis. 

If the PCs attack him, the dragon will fight 
tbr two rounds, then fly away If the PCs 
make no attempt to help him, the dragon will 
say indignantly "Thanks for nothing ' and 
fly away. 

2. The Cave of the Winds 

For this encounter, the DM should refer to 
the DAI Map 8: The Cave of the Winds 

Before the PCs get a chance to dimb down 
the mountain* a magical wind will begin to 
blow. It will start as a stiff breeze but will 


soon be strong enough to sweep the PCs off 
their feet. The PCs will have throe rounds to 
prepare themselves or counter the wind by 
some appropriate magical spell such as control 
wind or weathe t control before they arc blown 
into the Cave of the Winds. 

Once in the cavc% the PCs will bounce off 
the cave wall three different times and then 
will be flung out a second opening in the cave 
to die desert below Any PC who falls to (he 
desert floor takes 10-60 paints of damage. 

The magical wind moves the PCs at about 
25 miles per hour The map scale of 2(1 feet 
per square means the PCs will move about 11 
squares per round: they will therefore be in 
the cave for a total of eight rounds before be 
ing Hung to the desert floor. They will hit rhe 
cave wall on the second, fourth, and sixth 
round 

Resides using some magical power to con 
trol or stop the wind, there are several places 
in the cave where the PCs could halt their 
progress. A PC with a long staff could jam it 
between the rock outcroppings at point 4 un 
the m ap to stop his moment um A PC - pass 
ing under the hole at point 8 could grab the 
dangling root by rolling his dexterity or less 
on ld2(J with a -2 penalty for the wand fthe 
root could support two PCs). The rise in the 
floor at poinL 2 and the pool of water at point 
6 provide other opportunities for quick 
thinking PCs to save themselves. 

The DM should be sure to describe all 
landmarks in the cave as ihe PCs approach 
them While the DM should consider any 
reasonable attempt Lhe PCs make to save 
themselves, he should also bear in mind that 
because of the wind they must make their de 
cision quickly. 

The wind blows for 10 minutes* rhen stops 
for 20 minutes, repeating the cycle every half 
hour. 


23 





The Yellow Realm 


3 . The Great Desert 


The desert is dry and barren Although 
the heat is intense, it is strangely soothing, 
and the journey passes quickly. 

Suddenly a spectacular creature streaks 
across :hc sky. It looks like a gigantic or 
ange eagle surrounded by intense flames 


The creature is a greater phoenix. It will 
swoop harmlessly over the heads of the PCs, 
corning no closer than 40 feel. 

greater phoenix J AC *2; HD 18 P * p * "; hp81; 
MV!M'(ar) v 450'(15O') flying; #AT 2 
daws/1 bite; D2* 12/2* 12/4*2+; Save F2Q; 
ML 10;AL N; XP 8,875; 5A dies as a fire 
ball 20d6; SD immune to fire, charm, kali , 
and weapon less than +3, 

The phoenix means the party no harm, it is 
merely curious. It will make three passes, and 
ii will streak nfT towards the horizon after the 
third. However, it the PCs attack, it will Fight 
hack with its beak and daws If killed, it wilt 
reappear from its ashes one round later and 
flee. 


The desert continues as far as the eye can 
sec. The oasis is now less than a mile 
away. It looks like u has formed around a 
pool of water 

As you round a high sand dune, you 
come upon a clearing surrounded by 
craggy ruck formations of salmon-colored 
sandstone. A warrior dressed in golden 
suil armor is working on an elaborate 
sculpture of a lion nearly 10 feet high. The 
sculpture is made of gold and amber and 
is breath takingly beautiful There are 
about a dozen other statues in all, includ 
ing a rooster a dm, and an oversized 
statue of the warrior himself. Several oth 
ers arc in various stages of completion, 

The warrior has a shield slung across 
his back bearing the emblem of the sun 
wearing a crown. He wears a saffron- 
colored cloak over his armor. Flames 
flicker along the blade of a sword sheathed 
at his side. 

In the background are six warriors, also 
dressed in gold, though not as elaborately. 
They are fending to the sculptor's tools 
and arranging large golden blocks for new 
statues. 

The sculptor see you and smiles 
broadly. "Well" be says, "what do you 
think?" 


The sculptor is Hyperbius, the Grand Master 
of the Brotherhood of the Sun, The other six 
are sollux (sun brothers), the bodyguards and 
assistants of Hyperbius, Hyperbius is both a 
mighty warrior and gifted artist. He has 
spent a lung time assembling these sculptures 
as a tribute lo nature (and to his own ego), 
Hyperbius wilt proudly show the PCs his 
sculptures after carefully warning them not to 
touch them. He will engage in small talk, al 
though he has no information of interest to 
the party. He considers himself an expert in 
Lhe philosophy of art; if asked why he chose 
tins location for his work, he will say preten 
tiously, "What better place for beautiful art 
than amidst the splendor of nature?" 

After sizing up the group, Hyperbius will 
approach the most attractive female (the 
DM's choice) or. if no females arc present, 
the most handsome mate (again, DM'* 
choice) and ask the PC to pose for a new 
sculpture. Hyperbius will be most insistent 
and will take offense if the PC resists. 

The DM should make clear during the 
course of the conversation that Hyperbius 
takes years to complete a single sculpture If 
the party leaves the chosen PC to pose, it is 
unlikely they will ever see him or her again. If 
the PCs attempt to leave, Hyperbius will lose 
his temper and attack with the aid of the six 
sollux. At no time will they attack the chosen 

PC. 

Hyperbius is a 36th level lighter and could 
get four attacks per round if he has a 2 or less 
modified score to hit (quite likely, since he has 
a +16 bonus to hit). The sollux arc l+th level 
fighters and sword Experts with a 17 strength 
and are +8 to hit, 

Hvpcrbius: AC -19; HD as F36; hp 122; MV 
m\2 0 r ); #At 2 sword (4 possible); D 
2d6 + lh each; Save F36; ML 11; AL L; 
XP 41,000; SD immune to lire, dhptl 
magic, and tided invisible 

sollux (6): AG -3; HU as FI 4; hp5l, 55, 50, 
52 56, 50; #AT 1 sword; D 2d8 f 4, Save 
F14, ML 10; AI L; XP 2,500; SD immune 
to diuptl magic and detect invisible 

If Hyperbius or any of thr sollux lose more 
than half of their hit points* Hyperbius will 
insist that the battle cease. If the PCs stop at 
tacking, Hyperbius will profusely apologize 
for their behavior, "This is not the way of 
men of art" he will say. "Go in peace with my 
apologies." If the PCs leave, Hyperbius will 
resume his sculpting. If the PCs continue at 
tacking, Hyperbius and the sollux will fight 
to the death. 


Attempts to steal the statues will be uhi- 
match futile, as they cannot be transported 
out of the realm 

5. Morilon the Golden 


I he magnificent oasis is FUlcd with palm 
trees and sunflowers, fn the center is a 
large pool of crystal clear water. The scent 
of doves and cinnamon lilJs the air. 

In front of the pool is a lion-headed man 
seated on an amber throne. He has golden 
hair, a short powerful body, and yellow 
cat's eves. Two lions sit attentively at his 
feet. He greets you with a warm smite. 
"Welcome, my friends " 


This is Morilon the Golden, the Guardian of 
the yellow realm. He is a man of peace and 
unless the PCs purposely antagonize him. he 
will be their friend. He will offer them or 
anges and pears to cat and will listen carefully 
to their story, His lirm& will rub against their 
legs and pun like kittens. If asked, he wdj 
gladly give then his symbol, the circle of gold. 

Before leaving, each PC wiJJ be given a 
choice of taking a potion qf curtail with them or 
having all wounds cured on the spot. In either 
ease, the effect comes from the water in the 
oasis pool. The water's power will only work 
once per PC'; a second drink has no effect. 

Morilon: AC -14; MY 120' (40'), HD 
55***: #AT 2 javelins or sword; D 4-40; 
Save F36. ML Ift; AL L; XP Value 
42,500; SA blood docs 2-1 2 points of dam 
age on contact with opponent's skin. SD 
invulnerable to 11 re-based attacks. 75% 
Ami- Magic; on first hit from javelin or 
sword opponent must save vs. Spells or be 
blinded for 3-18 turns. 

Note: Unlike lhe other six realms, there is no 
chance for any other encounters on the return 
trip to the yellow henge. Once the PCs have 
visited the seven realms, they may go on to 
Carnifex Castle. 


24 





PART II: CARNIFEX CASTLE 


When the Iasi symbol is plated in its niche 
in the circle* you begin to fed disoriented. 
The seven henges start to fade out. When 
all seven symbols are in plate, anyone 
who is wounded becomes magically 
healed of all wounds All spell casters sud 
denly have their full number of spells 
memorized. 


Encounter Setting 

The second part of (he adventure rieah with 
the Garnifex Castle. The characters have col 
lected all of the seven symbols and have 
opened rhe gate to the prison world. If they 
have not, the characters must return to the 
seven realms to collect the missing symbols. 
Without the seven symbols, they can con 
tinue no Further. 

After the seven symbols are in place and 
the characters have made the transition to the 
next setting, they must now enter Camifex 
Casik find ihc Camifex and their treasure* 
and see if the Garnifex have any invasion 
plans. 

The Camifex have declined in population 
as the centuries have passed. As their man- 
hers dwindled, they sealed off most of the cas 
tle {magically filling in the open areas with 
solid rock), They have onlv bothered to keep 
open the areas where they live and the areas 
where ihev have set traps to catch intruders. 
The three sections of Part II should be 
played in the order given. Time functions 
normally in the prison world, and there are 
no restrictions to movement. 

Wandering Monsters 

Once ihe characters have entered Camifex 
Castle there is a chance that they will run 
into w andering monsters. At the start of each 
second turn, the DM should roll ldh, On a 
roll of 1. the characters will encounter a wan 
dering monster. Use the table given Wow- for 
such encounters, it is suggested that no wan 
dering monster be repeated during the course 
of play. 

Wandering Monster Table 

Die R'tll Monster 

1 1 Beholder 

2 2 Garnifex Guards 

3 1 Sporade 

4 2 Camifex Chaplains 

5 I Undead Beholder 

6 2 Camifex Tricksters 


Beholder: AC 2/5/7; HD 11"***: hp 50: 
MV 30' MV 30' {ten, MT 1 bite + spe 
cial; E)2-16 + special; Save Mil; ML 12; 
AL G; SA 10 eyes (see DM\ Companion, 
pages 28-20) 

2 Camifex Guards: AC -13: HD as FI8; hp 
68: MV 60' (20 f ); #AT 1 sword or 1 spell; 
D 2d6 + 14; Save FI8; ML 10; ALC; XF 
10,600: SA spells (anti-magic shell, haste, 
lightning holt, mirror image); SA + 14 to hit 

Sporadei AC 0; HD7* M ; hp 32; MV 180' 
(60'); #AT 12 tentacles/1 bite; D I + 
paralysis/2*20; Save special (see page 39, 
Master DM's Hooky, ML 10; AL C; XP 
1 *650 

2 Camifex Chaplains: AC -12; HD as Cl8: 
hp 50; MV 60' (20 f ); #AT I mace or 1 
spell; D 2d4 + 8; Save C18; ML 9; AL C; 
XP 10,600; SA sptlk 6, 6, 5, 4, 4, 3, 2 

Spells Known 

First level: cause light wounds detest magic, dark- 
nets, purify fowl and imitrr t must fear, resist add 
Second level: blight, hold person, confuse align 
ment, resist fire, silence 15* radius, snake charm 
Third level: cmrttnual darkness, cause disease, 
curse, iptwk with dead, \ Inking 
Fourt h level: animate dead, cause serious wounds, 
dispel magic, create poison 
Fifth level: commit cause critical wounds, quest, 
finger of death 

Sixth level: acnal servant, harrier, curtail 
Seventh level: obliterate, life dram 
M agic - use r spd 1 s: force field, anti - magi c shelf 
fire hall, haste, mirror image; 

SA + HI to hit 

Undead Beholder: AC -4Z-2/3; HD 
20****"*; hp 90; MV 60 r (20'); #AT 1 
bite + special: D 2-20 + special: Save 
M20: ML 12; AL C. XP 14,975; SA 10 
eyes {see Master DM V Book, page 25) 

2 Garnifex Tricksters AC -6; HD as T18: hp 
50; MV 120' (41)'); #AT 1 sword or spell; 
D 2dfi + 8: Save Ti8; ML 9; AL C; XP 
10,600; SA spells (retimegravity, anti-magic 
shelf teleport, telekinesis, fly, lightning half in- 

tihibility); SA + 10 to hit 

AJJ wandering monsters will automatically 
attack any and all intruders. 


Encounter Key 
1* The Entrance 


A feeling of disorientation passes. The 
plateau atop Guardian Mesa is now nes 
tled high above ihc clouds. The seven 
henges have disappeared. 

About half a mile avvav, a castle also 
floats on the clouds. The castle is immense 
" the size of a large city It looks like all 
the doom and windows except for the 
main gate have been completely sealed vip 
with .stone The only entrance visible is a 
massive wooden door, 

A narrow stone bridge connects rhe pla 
teau and the castle. The bridge is only two 
feet wide; it seems to span a bottomless 
abyss, 

Below the plateau, bridge, and castle 
floats a strange-looking bank of clouds. 
The clouds arc a greasy green color Small 
flecks of light dart back and forth inside 
them The cloud* drift in what seems a 
completely random manner. 

The clouds beneath the plateau, bridge, and 
castle arc magical, They are poisonous, and 
also have the power of petrification. Each 
turn a character spends in the clouds, that 
character must make two saving throws at -5 
each: one versus dragon breath for the poison 
and one versus turn to stone for the petrifica 
tion Failure to makr these saves result in the 
character's death. A character would have to 
fall oil the bridge to he in any danger from the 
clouds. 

The bridge is half a mile long (2640 feet). 
Any character moving faster than 40' per 
round has to make a save versus death to keep 
from falling off the narrow bridge. 

2. The Horn at ihc Gate 

The only entrance to Camifex Castle which 
has not been completely sealed with nock is 
the front gate. The gate is a massive wooden 
door which appears to be locked. Hanging 
from a peg on the door is an ornate ivory and 
brass hom. 

The castle itself is built of a strange kind of 
stone. The stone is dark gray, but gives off a 
stale, reptilianl odor The surface of the stone 
oozes with some slick, oily film. 

The stone surface is disgusting, but it is 
safe to touch. The characters have (o decide 
whether or not to blow the horn. Two differ- 


25 






PART II; GARNIFEX CASTLE 


"U rumors provide them with conflicting ad 
vice The decision they make will determine a 
hi ter encounter. 

If the characters blow the burn, the nudk* 
alavre from Encounter 4, The Hall of the 
Undead, is gated out of the prison dimen 
sion While the miukalavee by itself should 
give the characters no problem, the fewer 
monsters the characters have to face in later 
encounters, the better. 

Blowing the horn affects the set-up for Lhe 
Hall of the Undead later in thb seuion, If the 
nuckalavcc is teleported to the entrance, its 
place in the hall is vacant, bin i wo other mon 
sters arc called up by the lich, See Encounter 


4, Hall of the Undead* fur this information, 
Note that the entrance to the castle is 
locked, and will require the talents of a thief 
to open it. If the attempt is unsuccessful, or if 
there is no thief in the parly, the dour can be 
forced open by brute strength. Success in this 
latter event requires the strength of two char 
acters, the combination of which must equal 
no Jess than 30, 

3, The Deadly Maze 


You see a long passage which leads to a 
four-way intersection and beyond The 


halUare 10 leet wide, composed of stone, 
and have (0 foot ceilings. The passages 
are unlit, and carry a dank, unrecogm^ 
able odor 


Use the DM Map II: The Deadly Maze , This 
section is essentially a maze filled with vari 
ous traps. The numbers marked on the map 
arc the encounter numbers (c)f this section - 
each is a trap of some sort. Since the Camifex 
have a particular taste for human and demi- 
hunwi flesh, many of t he traps deal with this 
bizarre appetite in one way or another. Note 
that each trap is duplicated, so it is possible 



Mm 


26 














PART II: CARNIFEX CASTLE 


for characters re run into the same type of 
trap more than once. As described earlier, rhe 
rest of the castle has been sealed oil; thus, the 
maze is the only way to reach the Camifex. 

The characters have no real way to tell 
compass directions inside the castle. The DM 
can either give map directions using 
"ahead/' "behind/' "left" or "right/ 1 or can 
arbitrarily make the top of the map the 
"north" direction. 

The maze begins with the gate to the cas 
tle; it ends where the corridor leads to the 
Hall of the Undead. 

The maze was built to confound even the 
best thieves. The design and construction is 
so cunning and magical, and rhe thought 
processes behind the structure are so alien, 
that thieves only have half their normal 
chance to Find and Remove Traps (rounded 
up in the character's favor). In addition, 
some of the traps have been magically con 
cealed. consequently, the magic will have to 
be removed before the thief has a chance to 
find and remove the trap. Traps that are mag 
ically concealed are also resistant to magical 
methods of detection (as with a wand of trap de 
tection) until a dispel magic spell is used. Even 
then, the traps in the maze can only be found 
or neutralized magically on a roll of 01-50 (in 
other words, with a 50% chance of success). 
The traps in this section of the castle are mag 
ically set to recognize the Camifex and their 
minions, and will not be set off as they pass 
over these traps. 

A. Barbecue Pit 

Trap A is a pit of poisonous barbecue sauce. 
When triggered, a section of the floor falb 
away to drop the character into a pit The 
trap is triggered on a roll of 1*2 (on Jd6) by 
the firs? character walking over the spot. The 
barbecue sauce is poisonous to anyone other 
than the Camifex; Tor this reason, a saving 
throw must be made against poison at a -4 
penalty to the roll. If the save is successful, 
the character Lakes no damage. 

B. Teleporter 

Trap B is a teleportation spell, The spell is trig 
gered on a mil of 1-2 (on !d6) as with trap A, 
The victim of this trap is [deported to a large 
meat processor inside the frozen food locker 
marked on the map. The meat processor does 
10-60 points of damage per round. 

Even if the character escapes the meat 
processor, he still has to get out of the food 
locker before freezing to death (an event 
which takes place after 10 turns). The normal 
method for getting in and out of the locker is 
by teleportation -a method which is easy for 


the magically-inclined Camifex. 

C B Bakery Wails 

TVap D is triggered on a 1*3 roll (Jd6). When 
triggered, the walls, floor, and ceiling heat up 
suddenly like the inside of an oven. The effect 
stretches 60 feet in either direction of the 
point the trap is triggered. Each turn a char 
acter spends inside this stifling, hot passage 
will result in 6^36 points of damage to that 
character This particular trap has been mag 
ically concealed. 

D, Deadly Gas 

Trap E is a tasteless, odorless, invisible gas 
that builds up in the corridors. The gas 
spreads out 100 feel in either direction. The 
first turn a character spends in the gas will re 
sult in 5 points of damage; the second turn re 
sults in 10 points of damage; the third turn 
results in 15 points of damage, and so on. 
This trap is triggered on a roll of 1-3 (IdG). 

E, Glue Floor 

When this trap is triggered, hundreds of 
spouts pour out a liquid from holes in the ceil 
ing and walls. As soon as the liquid mixes 
with the air, it begins to harden. The end re 
sult is a thick, pasty glue which causes the 
characters to stick to the floor Weapons will 
likewise stick in the characters 1 hands. A 
character who touches someone else will also 
stick to him. 

The glue extends for 30 feet in either direc 
tion. This trap is triggered on a roll of 1 
(ld6). The glue b not especially dangerous in 
itself, although it will take characters an aver 
age of 1-4 turns to free themselves. This par 
ticular trap has been magically concealed. 

F, Slippery Chute 

Trap C is a chute which leads to the Camifex 
larder 500 feel below this level (the larder is 
not shown on the map). The chute drops to a 
45 degree angle and is coated with grease. 
Once a victim starts Lo slide, it is almost im 
possible to stop. The hinged trap door of the 
chute is triggered on a 1-2 (ld6). 

Two Camifex guards armed with meat 
cleavers (treated as battle axes for damage, 
etc.) wait in die larder 

2 Camifex guards: AC -9: HD as F18(M)*; 
hp 6&; MV 60' (20'); *AT I battle axe** 
or 1 spell, D ld8 + 14; Save FIS; ML 10; 
AL C; XP 10,600; SA spells (anti-magic 
shell, haste, lightning bolt, mirror image); £4 
+12 to hit 

The Camifex guards will have an immediate 


two attacks on victims - more if the victims 
have dropped their weapons or have none 
drawn. The Camifex guards attack with a 
hungered vehemence, attacking characters 
with meat cleavers first, relying on spell 
magic only as a last resort in combat. Charao 
ters who are dead or unconscious after (his 
encounter will often be taken (via Ulepor&htm) 
to die frozen food locker to be processed and/ 
or stored for later consumption. The Cami* 
fex quards will only rely on their ability to 
teleport as a method of escape in only the most 
disastrous circumstances, preferring to fight 
to the bitter end in most cases. This determi 
nation in battle is due in part to the Camifex 
ego* which allows the Camifex to envision 
themselves as levels above humans and other 
mere mortals. 

G. Quicksand Wall 

Trap H is triggered on a roll of 1 -3 (ld6). Ini 
tially* the walls in a 10 foot long area will act 
as giant magnets, attracting to them any ob 
ject made of iron or steel. No one character is 
strong enough to resist the magnetic pull of 
this trap, although the combined strengths of 
two characters free of the attraction can re 
lease a character. The combined strengths of 
the two characters must equal no less than 30 
for this to succeed. 

Once a victim is stuck to the wall, it magi* 
tally changes into a substance much like 
quicksand, sucking the character into the 
walk Metallic objects will be the first to be 
sucked in. Any character who chooses to lose 
the metallic objects (hastily getting out of ar 
mor, abandoning shield, sword* etc.) will be 
able to get free before being sucked in Fail 
ure to abandon these objects will result in the 
character being sucked into the wall along 
with the metallic object, 

As an added damage, the wall secretes an 
extremely powerful acid, which will dissolve 
all metallic objects immersed within it inside 
of8 rounds. Characters will take 10-60 points 
of damage for every round they are immersed 
in the acid, 

H 4 Flame Broiled 

Trap I is triggered on a roll of 1-2 (ld6). 
Characters may be somewhat suspicious of 
the walls, ceiling, and floor of this passage; 
they are covered with ash and soot. If the trap 
Ls triggered before the characters catch on, 
the individual setring the trap off will be the 
focal pomi of a fire hall doing 20d6 points of 
damage. 

If the characters make it through the maze, 
they will come upon a long corridor which 


27 



PART II: CARNIFEX CASTLE 


reads to a dosed double door. Beyond this 
doorway is the next encounter. 

4* The Hail of the Undead 


You see a large rectangular hall 180 feet 
long by 120 leet wide. The double wooden 
doors arc 10 feet across (5 feet each) and 
are located in the middle of a 120 foot 
wall. The ceiling is 60 feel high. 

A number of interior walls stretch from 
floor to ceiling. Twenty feet from the en 
trance is the first wall; it is 5 feet thick, 70 
feet long, and stands midway between the 
long walls Twenty feet behind this wall 
are two more walk; each are 5 feet thick 
and 50 feet long. Both walls connect with 
the side walls, and as you round the first 
wall, you sec a 20 foot opening in the cen 
ter of the room between them. Twenty feet 
beyond tins opening is another wall which 
appears identical to the first Beyond this, 
you can see no further details. 


Use DM Map 12 The Hail of the Undent \f the 
characters did not blow the horn m the gate, 
the nuekahivce will be stationed at position 1; 
otherwise, if the horn was blown, position 1 is 
vacant. 

If the horn was blown, positions 2 and 3 
will be guarded by a revenant and a shade, 
each of which were summoned by the lkh and 
nigbrwalker, as described earlier. If the horn 
was not blown, the revenant and shade may 
still foe summoned by the lich and nighi- 
wvalker at a later point. possibly attacking the 
characters from the rear as the lich and night- 
walker are attacking from the front. 

Positions 4 and 5 are guarded by the lich of 
a 25th level magic-uacr and by a night walker. 
Position 6 is occupied by a black hag. All 
these creatures are controlled by the Camifex 
chaplains; as a result, there is no chance for a 
derir to turn these creatures without first de 
stroying the controlling Camifex (When a 
character tries to turn undead under the con 
trol of another being, the attempt is checked 
against that com rolling being. Since the 
Camifex are not undead, neither they nor 
their pawns can be turned while they are 
alive,) 

Black hag: AC 4; HD 20*"****; hp 90; MV 
150' (50'); #AT 2 claws or I spell; D 2-8 + 
poison or spell; Save C20; KL 10: AL C; 
XP 13, *75; SA spells 7, 6, 5 S 4, 4, 4, 3 


Spells Known 

First level: cause tight wounds, detect evil, detect 
magic, darkness, purify food and water, cause /ear, 
resist cold 

Second level: blight, hold person, confuse align 
ment, resist silence 15* radius, snake cham\ 
Third level: continual darkness, came disease, 
curse, speak with dead, &mking(ei 
Fourth level animate dead, cause serious wounds, 
dispel magtc ; create poison 
Fifth level; commune, insect plague, guest, finger 
of death 

Sixth level: aerial servant, harrier, (peak with 
monsters, ward of mall 

Seventh level: earthquake, obliterate, life drain 

SA save vs. poison at -4 (see page 31 of the 
Master DM ! s Book for further information) 

Lich: AC 0; HD as M25: hp 39; MV 90' 
(30'); #AT I touch or 1 spell; D 1-10 + pa 
ralysis or by spell; Save M25; ML 10; AL 
C; XP 7950; SA spclb 7, 7, 6, 6 T 5 T 5, 4, 4, 
3 

Spells Known 

First level: charm person, floating disc } hold por 
tal, darkness, magic missile, read magic, shield 
Second level: continual darkness, detect mvisihk, 
ESP, invis ibility, mirror tmage, phantasmal force, 
web 

Third level: dispel magic , fire ball , fly, hold per 
son, lightning bolt, protection from normal missiles 
Fou rth level: confusion, dimension door , ice storm/ 
wall, polymorph self curse t Wall of fire 
Fifth level: doudkill. conjure elemental, dissolve, 
magic jar, teleport 

Sixth level: anh-magic shell, death spell, disinte 
grate, projected image, wall of iron 
Seventh level: create normal monsters, delayed 
blast fire halt, power word stun, reverse gravity 
Eighth level: explosive thud, forcefield, mind har 
rier, power word blind 

Mi nth levd: immunity, power word kill, prismatic 
wall 

(sec pages 33-34 of the Master DM *S Book for 
further information) 

Night walker AC -6; HD 26*****; hp 117; 
MV 150' (50 J ); #AT 2 blows + poison + 
armor crush (50% base chance); D 3-30 
each; Save F26; ML 12; AL C; XP 
20,000; SA & SD, see pages 36-37 of the 
Master DM 'j Book 


Nuekalavce; AC 4: HD 11***; hp 50; MV 
120' (40'); #AT 2 daws; D 3-24 + death 
each: SaveFIJ; ML 10; ALC; XP3,500; 
SA cone of cold; $D save vs, fear 

Revenant: AC -3: HD 18****; hp 81; MV 
120' (4(f). #AT 2 claws/1 bite; D 2-B/2-8/ 
3-6 all 4 poison); Save FIB; ML 10; AL 
C; XP 6,600; SA surprise 50% 

Shade: AC 0; HD ]]**•; hp 50; MV 120' 
(40'); #AT I dagger; D 3-12: Save Mil; 
ML 9; AL C; XP 3 f 500; SA surprise 
90%, Save vs, death 

The various monsters in the room have a to 
tal treasure of 70,000 gp. 25,000 pp, 100 
gems worth 100,000 gp + 50 pieces of jewelry 
worth 250,000 gp, plus a potion of longevity^ tal 
isman of elemental travel, ring of protection + 4, 
and a + 3 shield 

The double dour in the back of the room 
leads to (he next encounter. The door is 
locked from the other side, but can be picked 
by a thief from this side. Otherwise, magical 
meant or brute force will need to be applied 
- the latter of which h bound to attract some 
attention within the next section. 

Upon opening (he door, the characters will 
see a short passage that ends in a single 
wooden door This door is also locked from 
the other side. but can be picked from this 
side by a competent thief. Other means may 
be necessary as above in the event that there 
is no thief among rhe characters. 

Endgame 

Encounter Setting 

The characters find that: I) the Camifex 
have built a one-way gate that leads directly 
from their dimension to that of the charac 
ters' home world, and 2) the Camifex have 
discovered the means to make a magical de 
vice that can create undead duplicates of any 
living creature, This device is a large staff 
composed of ebony and studded overall with 
black diamonds. 

It has taken the Camifex a millcnut of mag 
ical research and a special ceremony taking 
more than 30 years la complete, but they are 
now prepared to invade the home of the char 
acters and wreak havoc on it 

Worse yet. the device that creates undead 
doubles is powered by the rare and highly- 
magical black diamonds It is possible that 


28 




PART II: CARNIFEX CASTLE 


the characters might be carrying extra ¦'fud ,p 
for the perfidious magical device (in the form 
of ihe black diamonds from the Black 
Realm) 

The character will not only have to defeat 
these Cartiifex who arc prescndy on guard - 
they w ill also have to defeat their own undead 
doubles once the staff Is used. The characters 
can then destroy the magical device and then 
return home. Without the giant staff of yji- 
dead duplication, the Carnifex would be eas 
ily defeated if they tried to invade the 
character** home dimension. 

Note: The Dungeon Master should use 
DM Map 5; The Garnifex Shrine 

Encounter Key 

1. Carnifex Sentries 


When you exit the Hall of the Undead, 
you see a large room 130 feet wide by 70 
feet long. Opposite the door you entered, 
there is a 20 foot wide arch flanked by tall 
black pillars. The arch leads to another 
room beyond the first one. The first mom 
has two other doors in the middle of each 
side wall. The back room is filled with a 
shadow* [ike fog that spills out a little into 
the front room. 

There are four lizard-tike humanoids in 
the room. Each is seven feet tall. Tivo of 
these creatures are dressed in armor and 
carrv maces; the other two are dressed 
simply in robes. 


The first two creatures are, of course. Camifex 
chaplains; the remaining two are Carnifex 
magi. All four will automatically attack the 
characters, as their purpose is to guard the eb 
ony msec and the gate to the character*' home 
dimension The Camifex have an extreme 
sense of duty. In the case of the Shrine of the 
Camifex, the chaplains and the magi will not 
hesitate to use their powerful magic on in 
truders. The Camifex are egotistical to a good 
degree, and will view the characters as nothing 
more than mere mortals balding gods. This 
egotism is not only the driving force behind the 
Camifex in battle; it also their downfall. As a re 
sult of this aspect of their character, the) often 
fight to the bitter end. 

Note that the positions where they all start 
are marked on the DM ? s map, 

2 Garni fex Chaplains: AC -12; HD as CIS; 
hp 50; MY 60' (20*); #AT 1 mace or 1 
spell: D 2d4 + 8; Save CIS; ML 9; AL C; 
XP 10,600; SA spells 6. 6, 5, 4 t 4, 3, 2 


Spells Known 

First level: cause tight wounds, detect magic, dark 
ness, purify pod and water, cause fear ; resist cold 
Second level: blight, hold person, confuse align 
merit, resist fire, silence 15 1 radius, snake charm 
Third level: continual darkness, cause disease, 
curse t speak with dead, striking 
Fourth level: animate dead, cause serious wounds, 
dispel magic, create poison 
Fifth level: commune, tause critical wounds, quest, 
finger of death 

Sixth level: aerial servant, barrier ; curtail 
Seventh level: obliterate, life drain 
Magic-user spells: force field ( anti-magic shell , 
fire ball, haste , mirror image; 

SA + 10 to hit 

2 Carnifex Magi: AC 0; HD as M36; hp 59; 
MV F2Q r {4(F); #AT 1 dagger or l spell; D 
2d4 + 4; Save M36; ML 10; AL C; XP 
19,250; SA spelk 9, 9, 9, 9 f 9, 9, 9, 9, 9 

Spdls Known 

First level: charm person, detect magic, floating 
disc, light\ magic missile, rend languages, read 
magic , shield, sleep 

Second level: continual darkness, detect invisible, 
ESP, invisibility knock r locate object, mirror image, 
web, wizard lock 

Third level; dispel magic, fire ball, fly, haste, hold 
person, mfinviswn, invisibility IQ* radius, light 
ning bolt, protection from normal m is silts 
Fourth level: charm monster, confusion, ice storm/ 
wall, massmorph, polymorph others, polymorph 
self, curse, wall of fire, wizard eye 
Fifth level: animate dead, doudktlf conjure ele 
mental, contact outer plane, dissolve, hold monster, 
telekinesis, teleport, wedt of stone 
Sixth level: cnti-magn shell , death spell, disinte 
grate. geos, invisible stalker, move earth, projected 
image, flesh to stone ; wall if iron 
Seventh level: create normal monsters, delayed 
blast fine ball, magic door, mass tnmsihdtty, power 
word stun, reverse gravity, summon object, sword, 
telepart any object 

Eighth level: create magical monsters, explosive 
cloud, force field, mass charm, mind harrier, perma 
nence. polymorph any object, power word blind, 
symbol 

Ninth level; contingency, create any monster ; gate, 
immunity " maze, meteor swarm, power word kill 

prismatic waif shapechange 

SA + B to hit 


2* The Shrine of the Carnifex 


The room beyond the black pillars is 70 
feet wide and 50 feet long. The walls are 
panelled in gold, encrusted with gems. 
The arch is in the middle of one of the 
wide walls. In the center of the mom, 
shrouded in shadows is the dim shape of 
an altar. From what you can make out, it 
appears to be made of the same oily stone 
as the castle is made of. The shadow gets 
darker as it goes inward toward the altar, 
reaching a point at center where things are 
hardy discernible. Resting on the altar is 
a long, cylindrical object which cannot be 
entirely made out From this point radi 
ates a shadowy fog which fills this rooms 
with darkness, some of which spills out 
into the previous chamber 


This will probably be ihe characters' final com 
bat of the adventure. The darkness From the 
black diamond stafFhas a rather unique power: 
it will duplicate any creature (except its creators 
- the Camifex) bathed by the shadow (some 
what like a done spell), the duplicates will, how 
ever, be similar to undead, looking like pale, 
bloodless, imitations of their originals. 

Once the characters enter the altar room, 
they will begin to feel somewhat lightheaded. 
When the feeling passes, they will find before 
them their exact duplicate as described 
above. Like dones, the undead duplicates 
will immediately attack the original charac 
ters, acting purely on impulse as they arc 
controlled by thr spell power of the staff. The 
psychic link between the character and the 
undead duplicate is so strong that a character 
can only attack his duplicate as long as that 
duplicate has hit points. Once the duplicate is 
reduced to zero or less hit points, the charac 
ter is free to attack any other undead dupli 
cates ¦ 

Clerics will not be able to turn their own 
duplicate. Once that duplicate is reduced to 
zero or less hit poims, a dene can then try to 
turn the other duplicates. 

Duplicates arc similarly limited to attack 
ing their original umil that original has been 
slain. 

Each duplicate will be exactly like the orig 
inal character except that they will possess 
none of the magical items of the original. 
Thus, a duplicate of a fighter with an 18 
strength, + 3 plate mask and 97 hit points 
would have the 18 strength and 97 hit points, 
but would be wearing non-magical plate 
mail. Duplicates will have the same weapons 
and weapon's expertise as the original, but 


29 




PART II: CARNIFEX CASTLE 


will only have half the speJJ ability of rhe orig 
inal due to an error in the design of the Black 
Staff. Spells should be determined by the DM 
by random die roll, keeping half of the spells 
in each spdl tevei and rounding down in fa 
vor of the characters. 

The duplication will be identical to the 
character at that current moment. Thus, a 
wounded character will be faced by a dupli 
cate with similar wounds. This will be re 
flected in the number of hit points the 
duplicate will have. 

After describing the situation for the char 
acters, the DM should take a look at each 
character sheet and copy the necessary infor 
mation for each on another sheet. This will 
provide the information needed to create 
each duplicate. 

3, The Black Staff 

As each duplicate is defeated, the shadows 
will diminish by degrees. When the final du 
plicate is defeated, the shadows will disap 
pear entirely and the bodies of the duplicates 
will swiftly decay into piles of dust. At this 
point, the characters will be able to see the 
staff in its entirety. Though the staff itself still 
maintains its original spell magic, it will be 
worthless without more fuel. In its present 
suite, the staff will appear as nothing more 
than a slightly magical ebony rod encrusted 
with seven clear diamonds - each having 
lost lb color m the expenditure of its power. 
The characters will not be able to use the 
Black Staff themselves, even though they 
might be able to **refuel" if with the black di 
amonds thev possess. Only the Carnifex are 
able 10 use the staff. 

The staff can be destroyed, however, [n or 
der to do this, the characters must use a remote 
rune spell to rid the staff of its clerical power, 
then must follow with a dispel mqgu spdl to rid 
it of its magical power. 

As soon is the Black Staff is rendered pow 
erless, the characters will see a dull gray 
henge appear slowly in the back wall of the al 
tar room. The henge is similar to the ones 
which originally brought the characters tq the 
Seven Realms. Looking through the henge , 
the characters will see the plateau atop 
Guardian Mesa. 

DM's Note: The dull grey henge leads di 
rectly back to the characters' home dimen 
sion. It was this portal that the Carnifex 
intended to launch their invasion through. 
Without the Black Staff, however, the inva 
sion will have little chance of success The 
characters can use the dull gray henge to re 
turn home. 


When the Black Staff is destroyed, an 
alarm begins to ring throughout the castle. In 
two turns, dozens of each type of Carnifex 
class (guards, tricksters, chaplains, and 
magi) will begin pouring into the shrine from 
their living quarters. 

The characters will, therefore, have to 
make a rather hasty departure to avoid this 
fate. Before being forced to return home, 
each character can manage to pry no more 
than six golden panels from the wall and toss 
them before them through the portal The 
gold panels are two feet tall, two fcet wide t 
and one inch thick. Lach weighs about 200 
pounds and is worth 50,000 gp (including the 
encrusted gems). The staff will be of iitdc 
worth to the characters at this stage, since 
each of the seven diamonds will have been re 
duced to worthless dust in the process of dis 
pelling the magic. 

When the characters return to the plateau, 
they will at first fed disoriented as before. 
When this feeling passes, they will find that 
all seven symbols are still in their respective 
niches within the circle of stone. I! the sym 
bols are removed, the interdimensional por 
tal built by the Carnifex will be rendered 
useless (see note 32. Player Aid /). 

If the seven symbols are left in place, the 
gray gate will remain open, and Carnifex of 
every sort will start coming through it pairs. 
The characters will thus have to flee or fight 
as best they can, 

DM's note: It is advised that no more than 
three of each class of Carnifex chase the char 
acters through the gray portal (if it is left 
open) Without the Black Staff, the Carnifex 
will be reluctant to risk fighting the charac 
ters in their own dimension, even in spite of 
their extreme egotism and their lust for re 
venge. 

When the last PC leaves Castle Carnifex, a 
loud rumble and horrible shrieks still echo 
from the magical portal. The castle falls back 
into the dark Pits of Banishment. A large 
chunk of the fortress has been ripped open 
with the creation of the gate. Clusters of hor 
rified camifexes pour out of the breach, fall 
ing into oblivion, 

With a food snap, the gate doses A golden 
aura suddenly bathes the whole mesa. From 
the henges slowly appear the rulers of each 
magical realm. As if they were a single entity, 
they kneel before the party and announce the 
following: 


You have bested us and thus, it is your 
right to claim and rule our realms Such is 
our Jaw . Should Lhis be your choice, you 
then become the defenden of the gate to 
the Pits of Banishment. Touch a henge for 
the power us be yours, or leave and never 
return.' 11 


The rulers of the magical realms then dis 
appear, leaving the party alone on the mesa. 
The PCs are free to leave the area or touch a 
henge. Divination spells equivalents reveal 
there ia no danger from cither choice 

As soon as a PC touches a henge, he be 
comes the ruler of the corresponding realm, 
He may leave or enter via the henge, at w ill, 
He is totally immune to the realm's native 
creatures. When within the realm, he will not 
age. Intelligent creatures of his native realm 
automatically obey him. The PC is otherwise 
unchanged. If hr decides to leave the realm, 
he ages normally for the duration of time 
spent outside. Should a creature alien to the 
realm enter, the ruler is, however, automati 
cally teleported back to his realm and cannot 
leave until the trespasser has been expelled or 
dealt with permanently. 

If the DM has the D&D* Immortal Set, the 
characters may become Novice Immortals, 
as per the rules. The magical realm becomes 
the PCs new plane; his mission is to defend it 
until relieved of this duty by a more powerful 
Immortal. 

Those PCs who decide to ignore rhe offer 
may leave the area, However, as they walk 
away, each feels a sudden divine warmth 
within his heart; roll ld6 and apply the results 
immediately for each character. 

1 - The character gains one extra level, with 
the besi hit die roll possible, if applicable, 

2 - The PCs'(r) prime requisite increases by 
one point {maximum 18) and gains perma 
nent resistance to all poisons, 

3 - The PC gains the power of 7 rue Sight and 
ESP permanent By. 

4 - An authentic Act of Inheritance appears 
in the PC's equipment. He gains a lost do 
minion at the choice of the DM 

5 - The character gains the magical power 
of flying or invisibility at will. 

6 - The PC gains one automatic and per 
sonal Raise Dead Fully in case of death. The 
PC is not aware of the gift. 


30 




Pre-Rolled Characters 


Tar an Neutral 33rd-leveJ fighter 

Strength J 8 

Intelligence J1 

Wisdom 9 

Dexterity 17 

Constitution 18 

Charisma 16 

Armor Class -7f-11} 

(H: -4AC/3) 

Hit points 121 


Weapon 

Mastery 

AT(H) D(H) 

AT(M) D(M) 

Sword + 4* 

Grand Master 

+ 15 

2d(i+ 15 

+ 13 

2d4 + 15 

Sword + 3 * * 

Master 

+ 12 

2d8+ 10 

+ 10 

2d6 + 10 

Dagger+2 

Expert 

+ 9 

2d4 +5 

+ 9 

2d4 + 5 

Hvy C rsbw + 

2 Expert 

+ 8 

2d6 + 4 

+ 8 

2dfi + 4 


*lef( hand p * right hand 
Armor Body Armor + 5 

Strom Chaotic 33rd-levd thief 

Strength 17 

Intelligence 12 

Wisdom 10 

Dexterity 18 

Constitution 18 

Charisma 11 

Armor Class -6(-10) 

(H: -4AC/3) 

Hir Points 102 

Weapon Mastery AT{H) D(H) AT{M) D(M) 

Sword + 5 Grand Master +15 2d6 + 15 + (3 2d4 + 15 

Dagger +4 Skilled +8 ldfi+6 +8 ld6 + 6 

Hvy Crsbw + 3 Skilled +10 2d6 + 3 +10 2d6 + 3 

Sword ha* Extinguishing "Talent, Heavy Crossbow has Climbing Bonus. 
Armor: Leather + 5 (Healing Power), ring of proteetwn + 4, displace ebak- 
Equiprncnt potion oj cthmality, pattern of defense + 4 , semti of mapping, 
rod of inertia, nng of quickness, girdle of giant strength (D + 4d6 + 30) r 

Barnstormer Lawful 33rd-Icvd fighlcr-paladm 

Strength 18 

Intelligence 9 

Wisdom 13 

Dexterity 18 

Constitution 17 

Charisma 15 

Armor Class -1I{*I5) 

(H: -4AC/3) 

Hit Points 112 

Weapon Mastery AT(If) D(H) AT(M) D(M) 

Sword +5 Grand Master +16 2d6 + 16 +14 2d4+l6 

Bow> +4* Grand Master +14 IdlO+H +16 4d4 + 7 

Lance +3 Master +9 ld6 + 18 + !1 ld8+22 

Horscbow - a special bow type known as a '"composite bow," the 
size or a short bow but otherwise treated as a long bow. 

Armor: + 2 Body Armor, +5 Shield. 

Equipment 20 +7 mwws, girdle of giant strength, nng of spell turning , ring of 
water walking, potion of super-healing, potion of ethereality, boots of levitation. 


Arian Lawful 33rd-ievd cleric 

Strength 17 

Intelligence 10 

Wisdom 18 

Dexterity 15 

Constitution 18 

Charisma 11 

Armor Class -10(-J 4} 

(H: -14 AC/3) 

Hit Points 87 

Weapon Mastery AT(H) D(H) AT(M) D(M) 

Mace +5 Grand Master +15 2d4+15 +15 2d4+l5 

Sling +4 Master +11 4d4 + 4 +9 idlO+6 

Armor: Body Armor +4, Shield +4 

Equipment: potion of clairvoyance, potion of longevity, staff (if healing (22 
charges), scroll of mages, helm of telepathy, flying carpet, ring off ire rest stance, 
nng of holiness. 

Morgana Neutral 33rd-tevd Magic-User 

Strength 14 

Intelligence 18 

Wisdom 9 

Dexterity 16 

Constitution 17 

Charisma 11 

Armor Class I(-3) 

{A: -4AC/4) 

Hit Points 70 

Weapon Mastery AT(H) D(H) AT(M) D(M) 

Staff + 4 Grand Master +13 td8+12 +13 JdB + 12 

Dagger +4 Master +11 3d4 + 5 +9 2d4+7 

Armor: nng of protection + 4, displacer cloak 

Equipment: bag of holding, ring of three wishes., staff of wizardry ( + 4), rod 
of dominion, scarab of protection, talisman of elemental travel, undersea boat, 
potwn of superheating, potion of water breathing, potion offire resistance, po 
tion of luck, potwn of speed, potion of ethereality. 

Draco Neutral 33rd-levei Fighter 

Strength 17 

Intelligence 13 

Wisdom 12 

Dexterity 17 

Constitution 18 

Charisma 15 

Armor Class 10(-14) 

(H: -4AC/3) 

Hit Points 117 

Weapon Mastery AT(H) D(H) AT(M) D(M) 

Sword +4 Grand Master +14 2d6 + l4 +12 2d4 + 14 

Lance +4 Master +9 Jd6 + 18 +11 Id8 + 22 

Dagger +3 Expert +9 2d4 +5 +9 2d4 + 5 

Hvy Crshw ^ 3 Expert +9 2d6+5 +9 2d6 + 5 

Armor: Body Armor + 4, Shield + 4 

Equipment; potion of ESP, potion of longevity, ring of elemental adaption, 
ring of truth f drums of panic, tamp of hng burning 



Spells: nm/WBtW/7 

Arian was an orphan mysteriously left on the steps of the Temple of 

Law in Lantri City Raised in the Temple of Law, Arian wauled 
nothing more than to become a cleric, and his tempermem and 
training; made him an ideal proponent of the philosophy of Law. 

Arian is now somewhat of a zealot* often taking extreme risks to 
gain converts to Law. Fortunately* he is extremely lucky surviving 
several harrowing encounters that should have killed him. Arian is 
convinced that some higher force is intervening at crucial times to 
save him, 

Equipment: potion of water breathing, rmg of elemental adaption, kdm 
tramporUtion, talisman of elemental travel, potion of super-healing , scroll 
truths ring of quickness 

Special Powers: Three rimes per day Taran can cast a lightning be 
(20dfi) He is also immune to ad lightning-based attacks. His rig; 
arm, from the elbow down, h made of magically animated steel. V 
ran fight with both hands at no penalty (his 1 eft hand attack and rig' 
hand attack are sepcratdy marked). 

After many years as the King of lerendi* Taran turned the kin 
dom over to his children and became a wandering hern. Because 
potions of longevity, he appears to be about 25 years old. He h; 
golden tanned skin, green eyes,, silver hair, and a long droopir 
mustache. He also has a long white scar running from his brow to h 
left hand in the shape of a lightning holt, 

Taran lost his right arm from the elbow down in another adve: 
tore. He replaced it with an arm made of steel and learned to figl 
with bis left hand. As a reward for faithful service, the Lords of Net 
trality magically animated TaratTs steel arm. 

Spdls: 9W9/9/8/6/7/6/7 

Morgana is a raven-haired beauty with violet eyes and copper- 
colored skin. She has nerves of steel but h smart enough to flee if the 
danger gets too great. She respects courage and is extremely gener* 
out and loyal to her friends. 

At one time. Morgana rule the Lost City of Gynidcea until she 
grew bored. She once was married to Taran and though they are 
now separated, they are still on friendly terms- Like Taran* she has 
avoided the effects of aging and looks about 25 She now lives on a 
magical island which can only be reached by a magical Hying boat, 
near the kingdom of lercndf 

Strom was born and raised among the Ferret Clan of the Atruagh: 
tribes. At age J7 hr was ambushed bv members of the rival Wt 
Clan, whom hr subsequently killed. As a result of his actions, it w i 
decided to exile Strom for six years. The sentance prevented a da 
war, but left Strom somewhat bitter. 

Strom journeyed to Tkyatis to become a jeweler like his fa the 
but the Jeweler's Guild discouraged any outside competition. 5 
Strom became a thief 

Strom has a hot temper which he usually manages to keep und< 
control. He is intensely loyal to ids friends. Though Chaotic, l 
never breaks a sworn oath, 

Draco iy a bit of a rogue to every one but his friends. He is cautious, 
even suspicious, in the presence of strangers. He is willing to Lake 
risks, but only if the odds arc in his favor. 

Draco is six feet tall and muscular. He has pale skin, short black 
hair, and a thin black mustache He was bom and raised in Thyatts 
and prefers life In the big city. He has learned to survive in the wil 
derness, but is really only comfortable on crowded city streets. 

Special: Barnstormer can turn undead as if an 11th level deric. h 
can also detect evil by concentrating. 

Spdls: 4/473/3/2 

Barnstormer is an Ethengar Tribesman who, before leaving h 
home to seek adventure, swore to protect and defend his fella 
tribesmen. He tends to interpret Lawful as what is good For tl 
Eihengar tribes and is therefore somewhat barbaric, although h 
Lawful actions are normal unless Ethcngar is actually involved 
Barnstormer is six and a half feet tall and is 220 pounds of sol 
muscle. He has shoulder-length brown hair and a short beard. 


9174XXX1501 






5. Where the Nightwalker awaits. 

6. Where the Black Hag awaits. 

7. The entrance to the Deadly Maze 


Revenant will be summoned 
Nuckalavee awaits. 

Shade will be summoned. 
Lich awaits. 


Where 

Where 

Where 

Where 


DM Map 

Hall of the Undead 


1 square = 10 



































































































































































































rom the maze 


[to Carnifex Living GuartersgS! 


:to Carnifex Living Quarters 


Carnifex Chaplain 


Carnifex Magus 


black pillar 


Shrine of Entropy 


Carnifex Shrine 


fnterdimensional portal 


i/vvvvu 













































































Master Game Adventure 


Twilight Callinc 

by Tom Moldvay 


Through seven gates lie seven realms. 

In seven realms stand seven guardians. 

With seven guardians lie seven symbols. 

From seven symbols comes one key. 

Alphaks the Dark desires that key, by which he 
plans to release death and chaos into the 
realms of man. Your party may be all that 
stands between life and death. Will you heed 
the lunatic ravings of a dying madman? Travel 
to the top of Guardian Mesa, and enter the Sep- 
tahenge. Gather the mystic symbols, create 
the key, and defeat the Carnifex, before it's too 
late... 


This adventure is Tor use with the DUNGEONS 
& DRAGONS* rules, and cannot be played 
without the D&D- Basic. Expert, Companion, 
and Master Sets produced by TSR (nc. 


1 986 TSR Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed rn the tl.S.A* 


i 


TSR Inc. 

FOB 756 
Lake Geneva, 
W153147 


TSR UK Ltd. 
The Mill, Rathmore Road 
Cambridge, CB14AD 
United Kingdom 


0-88038-3 16-X 



9 J74XXX1401 


S8.00 
























