Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09270 WG 12 Vale Of The Mage"
See other formats
A(dvancedDunqeonsfiDra^ons 


Official Game Adventure 


by Jean Rabe 

An AD&D- game module for 4-6 characters of levels 7-9 





/Scjwnce<r pun3eo nis^^ragonS) 

Official Game Accessory 

QREyHAWK(r) ADVENTURES 

Vale of the Mage 


Credits: 

Editing: Mike Breault 
Cartography: Supvr./Designer: 

Dave Sutherland 
Artist :Frey Graphics 
Interior Art: Valerie Valusek 
Cover Art: Roger Loveless 
Typography: Gaye O'Keefe and 

Katlileen C. MacDonald 
Keylining: Stephanie Tabat 


ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, 

AD&D, FORGOTTEN REALMS, PRODUCTS 
OF YOUR IMAGINATION, WORLD OF 
GREYHAWK, GREYHAWK, and the TSR logo 
are trademarks owned by TSR. I tic. 

Distributed to the book trade in the United States 
by Random House. !nc. t and in Canada by 
Random House of Canada. Ltd. Distributed to the 
toy and hobby trade by regional distributors. 
Distributed in the United Kingdom by TSR Ltd. 

This material is protected under the copyright 
laws of the United States of America. Any 
reproduction or unauthorized use of the material 
or artwork presented herein is prohibited without 
the express written permission of TSR, Inc. 

*1990 TSR. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

TSR, Inc. TSR Ltd. 

FOB 756 120 Church End t Cherry Hinton 

Lake Geneva, Cambridge CB1 3LB 

WI 53 H 7 USA United Kingdom 



PRODUCT* OF TOUR lit*G1 NATION" 


Table of Contents 

Introduction.2 

The Valley of the Mage ..3 

The Valley Elves..11 

The Tree People.13 

The Gnomes. 15 

Entering the Vale.16 

Valley Defenses.18 

Encounters in the Barrier Peaks.27 

Adventure Ideas.27 

Creature Statistics Chart.28 

Grist..- *29 

Griveling. 30 

Jakar. 31 

Jaleeda Bird.32 

Beginning the Adventure.33 

The Necromancers.36 

Visiting the Villages.38 

Encountering the Exalted One.39 

Encounters and Oddities.- .40 























intRofcuction 


This is an ADVANCED DUNGEONS & 
DRAGONS^ game adventure occurring in the 
WORLD OF GREYHAWK(r) fantasy setting. It 
is intended for characters of 7th through 9th 
level , for a total of 35 to 40 levels, A mix of 
character classes is desirable* Further it is 
important that at least some of the characters 
have magical weapons. 

This adventure is compatible with the 
AD&D- game and the AD&D 2nd Edition 
game. All NPCs and creatures in this adven 
ture are tailored to the AD&D 2nd Edition 
game. 

The module is divided into two sections; the 
first contains background information on the 
Valley of the Mage and details important 
NPCs who live there. It includes a chart listing 
creatures that are likely to be found in the vale 
and explains the vale geography and climate. 
This material can be consulted any time the 
player characters decide to adventure in the 
vale. A page of adventure ideas is also pro 
vided for DMs who want to continue to use 
the vale as an adventure setting* 

Adventure 

Background 

The Valley of the Mage is nestled amid the 
Barrier Peaks and is cloaked in mystery and 
rumors. Common folk avoid the vale, as they 
have heard stories that hideous monsters 
roam through it freely. The tales also say that 
adventuring parties and soldiers who have en 
tered the vale have never returned. However, 
lesser-told tales say some of the adventurers 
came back loaded down with platinum and 
gems. It is common knowledge to the people 
in the countries near the vale (Bissel, Gran 
March, The Grand Duchy of Geoff, Stench, 
Ket, and Veluna) that the vale is ruled by a 
powerful wizard who goes by the names of the 
Black One, the Exalted One, and the Mage of 
the Vale. They know the valley is well- 
defended and trapped and is populated with 
valley elves and gnomes who are loyal to the 
mage. 

Although area rulers fear the supposed 
power of the mage, believed to be as evil as is 
possible for a man to be T they have left him 
alone. The rulers think the mage is content to 
rule his vale and leave the rest of the country 
alone; they don't want to stir up trouble Lhal 
would bring him out of the vale and make him a 
direct threat. Still, their fears are strong and 
they want to know who or what goes in and 


out of the vale. Many of the rulers liave spies 
stationed in the Dim Forest and elsewhere 
near the entrance to the valley* 

March of Bissel spies recently have re 
ported that a band of necromancers, who 
were run out of the Bissel area, have entered 
the Valley of the Mage, Although Bissel offi 
cials are glad to be rid of the necromancers, 
who committed robberies, harmed innocents, 
and tried to bring a portion of Bissel under 
their dominion, the officials are concerned. 
They don't like the Black One, but they like 
even less the possibility of more mages linking 
up with him or usurping his control and gaining 
access to his great magical knowledge and 
items. 

The Bissel officials remain confident the 
Black One would not leave his valley* How 
ever, they fear that the necromancers, who 
already have shown a greediness for power, 
would expand their influence out from the Val 
ley of the Mage and attempt to take on the 
forces of the nearby countries. 

The player characters will be asked by His 
Lofty Grace, Walgar, the Margrave of Bissel, 
to venture into the vale and defeat the necro 
mancers. The PCs will be advised not to at 
tempt to tackle the Black One, as Walgar is 
certain such a confrontation will end in their 
deaths* 

The Necromancers 

The necromancers were indeed attempting to 
take over Bissel, which they believed was one 
of the weaker countries in the area. Being run 
out of the country before they could marshal 
their own forces frustrated and angered them, 
but also inspired them with another plan- 
increase their magical might and then lay low 
Bissel and any other country that would op 
pose them. 

The six-member group comprises three 
necromancers, a mage/fighter, a cleric, and a 
fighter. The group has done nothing to dis 
suade others from believing they are all nec 
romancers. The group heard the stories of 
the Valley of the Mage and the powerful mage 
who rules it. Bribing some of Lhe Bissel and 
Gran March spies, the necromancers also 
learned about the valley elves and gnomes 
who are loyal to the mage and about a female 
drow called "The First Protector," who is the 
mage's most trusted aide. 

The necromancers slipped through the 
vale's defenses, using all of their magical 


prowess, and entered the valley. They are 
now exploring the valley, testing the defenses 
of Lhe mage and his First Protector. They plan 
to meet with the First Protector, seeking a 
pact with the Black One. The necromancers 
want to learn new spells, which they are cer 
tain the Black One has researched. They plan 
to offer their services in protecting the valley, 
and want to turn over information about the 
surrounding lands' defenses, all in exchange 
for the spells* 

Once the necromancers have what they 
want-and if they have determined the mage 
and his First Protector can be defeated-they 
plan to usurp control of the valley and steal ail 
of the great magic the Black One is rumored 
to have. The necromancers are power 
hungry-unlike the mage, they will not be 
content to stop at the valley: they want all of 
the Flanaess. 

Encounters 

The player characters will have to deal with 
some of the valley's defenses, including magi 
cal traps, patrols, and creatures loyal to the 
mage-some of which were created by the 
mage. 

They also will encounter a small group of 
gnomes seeking to enlist Lhe PCs' aid in warn 
ing the First Protector about the necroman 
cers, and they will come across an abandoned 
estate now occupied by the necromancers. 
(The estate was abandoned when the Black 
One moved to another fortification.) 

Depending on the PCs' actions, the First 
Protector and her forces could learn of the 
PCs' presence and try lo chase them out of 
the valley. 

Abbreviations 

The statistics of non-player characters and 
monsters have been abbreviated. Those ab 
breviations stand for the following; 

AC = Armor Class; MV = Movement 
Rate: HD - Hit Dice; hp = current hit 
points; #AT = Number of Attacks; Ding = 
Damage caused by attacks; SA/SD - Special 
Attacks/Special Defenses; MR = Magic Re 
sistance; AL = Alignment; S = Size; 
THACO - To Hit Armor Class 0 (Zero), 


2 










the Valley of the mage 


Overall View 

The Valley of the Mage (see the four-color 
map that comes with this adventure) is 
nearly surrounded by the Barrier Peaks; 
the only opening is about 30 miles across 
and fronts on the Dim Forest- The lush val 
ley, which is a mystery to almost all the resi 
dents of the neighboring countries of Bisseh 
Gran March, and the Grand Duchy of Geoff, 
covers roughly 17*500 square miles. It 
stretches about 260 miles at its longest 
point and is about 90 miles across at its wid 
est. 

The javan River, which is the longest on 
the continent, begins high in the Barrier 
Peaks, winds through the Valley of the 
Mage, and exits the valley through the 
opening across from the Dim Forest. The 
river provides the valley residents with food 
and transportation, and the breathtaking 
falls of the river where the Barrier Peaks 
and the valley meet often shroud that part of 
the vale in a beautiful mist. 

For the past several decades the valley 
has been ruled by Jason Krimeah, or the 
Exalted One as the residents of the valley 
have named him. He is a former resident of 
the Great Kingdom who was banished when 
he attempted to usurp the throne. Before 
Krimeah moved into the valley, the land was 
known simply as 41 The Vale," and trappers 
frequented it because of the pelts they 
could obtain from many of the large animals 
native to the area. 

The Valley of the Mage is not considered 
an economic or military power on the conti 
nent, although residents of the countries 
around the vale are frightened of the power 
that is rumored to rest in the hands of Kri- 
meah and his subjects. Tales say that the 
mage throws lightning from his fingertips 
and can make the very earth shake. The 
former story has some basis in fact, as the 
Exalted One is a very formidable mage. 
However, he has no control over the 
ground. The valley and the Barrier Peaks 
rest on top of a fault, and when pressure 
builds up deep beneath the ground, tremors 
are felt throughout the vale, the Peaks, and 
into the Dim Forest. 

The Valley of the Mage is well defended. 
The Barrier Peaks are difficult to traverse, 


and the entrance to the valley near the Dim 
Forest is heavily guarded. Few are said to 
dare enter the valley; a well-armed expedi 
tion from Gran March never returned. Only 
a handful of adventurers have claimed to 
have traveled through the valley, though 
many who have heard their stories doubt 
their boasts. And while there are rumors of 
bold adventurers returning from the vale 
laden with platinum and gems, the lure of 
riches is not enough to draw common folk 
into the land. The area is known to be inhab 
ited by horrible monsters. 

Many commoners also stay away from the 
part of the Dim Forest near the entrance to 
the valley, as there have been reports of val 
ley elf bands ambushing travelers in the vi 
cinity. 

Population 

Scholars estimate the population of the Val 
ley of the Mage at 10,000, which is far from 
the truth. Scholars are certain elves and 
gnomes live in the valley* but they are un 
certain about other races. 

Actually, the valley is home to about 
1,200 gnomes, 800 humans, and 4,(X)0 val 
ley elves. The mountain dwarves who are 
spread throughout the Barrier Peaks num 
ber less than 1,000 and are not considered 
in the valley's population makeup. 

About 1,000 of the gnomes live in two com 
munities within the valley, the remainder live 
scattered in small groups throughout the vale. 
The valley elves are divided among three 
principal communities and four small villages, 
with a few' dozen living scattered near the val 
ley's entrance. The humans, called the tree 
people, have one primary village, where about 
a third of their number live. The rest of the 
tree people live in small settlements through 
out the valley along the Javan River. There are 
three small communities of mountain dwarves 
living along the base of the Barrier Peaks at 
Hie edge of ihe valley. There is only one drow 
resident of the valley, the First Protector, the 
trusted companion of the Exalted One. 

The major languages spoken in the valley 
are common, a dialect of elvish common to 
the valley elves, gnomish, and a corrupt, 
simple form of common spoken by the tree 
people. The gnomes in the vale speak all of 


these languages in addition to dwarvish and 
burrowing mammal. The valley elves speak 
common, gnomish, and their own tongue, 
and they can communicate with the tree 
people. Only a few dozen of the valley elves 
speak a limited form of dwarfish. The tree 
people speak their own tongue and attempt 
to communicate with those who do not un 
derstand it through the use of hand signals* 
Many of the mountain dwarves know a 
greater variety of languages, including com 
mon, which they use when dealing with the 
valley residents. The Exalted One and the 
First Protector speak many different lan 
guages* 

The elves, gnomes, and tree people are 
more thoroughly detailed in their own en 
tries later in this book. 

Physical Geography 

The majority of the Valley of the Mage is a 
flat plain, and the elevation of the vale at the 
entrance across from the Dim Forest is only 
slightly lower than the elevation at its north 
ern and western boundaries where it meets 
the Barrier Peaks. 

Although there are a variety of soil types 
throughout the valley* the dominant type is 
a fertile heavy clay that extends away from 
the banks of the javan River* This soil, com 
bined with the abundant rainfall* are respon 
sible for the thick vegetation predominant in 
the vale. 

All of the valley drains into the javan 
River. There are many streams in the val 
ley, all of which begin in the Barrier Peaks 
or feed from the river, and there are half a 
dozen small lakes close to the base of the 
Peaks. 

The Environment and 
Climate 

The Valley of the Mage has a subtropical cli 
mate, with temperatures during the major 
ity of the year ranging from 75 degrees to 
95 degrees during the day and 60 degrees 
to 80 degrees after the sun goes down. 
During the hot summer months the temper 
atures can reach 110 degrees or more, al 
though this does not happen often, and in 


3 






the winter months temperatures can drop 
to as low as 50 degrees. The Barrier Peaks 
surrounding the vale are cooler, and during 
the winter snow collects high in the peaks. 
Snow does not fall inside the vale. 

Because of the vale's location amidst the 
Barrier Peaks, rain is plentiful almost year 
round. The air that comes down the peaks 
on the valley side mixes with the vale s air 
temperature and produces rain. Rains are 
heaviest during the spring and often cause 
the Javan River to overflow its banks. Dur 
ing the hottest of summer months, the rains 
become infrequent, but the river is usually 
unaffected; rains in the mountains keep it 
from shrinking. 

Resources 

The Vale of the Mage is rich in mineral de 
posits, especially along the base of the Bar 
rier Peaks, The mountain dwarves mine the 
iron, silver, and platinum along the moun 
tain base, and the gnomes mine the iron and 
silver deeper in the vale. The dwarves line 
their coffers with the precious metals and 
sell some of it to merchants and metal- 
smiths in neighboring countries. The 
gnomes make jewelry, objects of art, weap 
ons, and household items from the metals, 
giving a percentage of the finished goods 
and raw metals to the Exalted One. 

Other resources in the vale include coal, 
copper, and small quantities of quartz. 

Plants and Animals 

Nearly the entire vale is covered with a 
thick growth of vegetation, The trees, the 
majority of them hardwoods, grow up to 
100 feet tall, their leaves creating a canopy 
over sections of the valley. The largest 
fruit-bearing trees are banana trees, which 
grow in abundance. Also plentiful are idani 
trees, which have tall, thick waxy trunks. 
The branches of the idani tree begin about 
12 feet off the ground and rise in a spiral to 
the top of the tree. The leaves, which are 
edible, are about a foot long, thick, and have 
a shiny, wax-like coating on the top side. 
The fruit of the idani is shaped like a banana, 
but is a little larger. When the fruit is a dusty 
rose color, it is firm and tart; when it ripens 
to a deep purple the fruit is more pulpy and 
very sweet. The idani trees are not known 


to grow outside the valley, and valley elves 
and gnomes traveling outside the vale can 
command good prices or receive fine items 
and expensive food in trade for the unusual 
fruit. 

The trees prized most by the valley resi 
dents are the tall ebonwoods, the hardest 
trees in the vale. The wood is used in the 
construction of furniture, staves, and ob 
jects of art. Occasionally, the wood is also 
used to fashion hilts for swords and daggers 
and to make buckles, plates, and mugs. 

Because of the volume of rain the va le re 
ceives, much of the ground remains damp 
and covered with a carpet of moss. Thick 
vines cover some expanses of ground and 
hang from the tallest trees. Some of the 
vines produce a squash-Uke vegetable fa 
vored by the gnomes. Because of the thick 
vegetation, the ground is difficult to dear. 
Still, there are places around valley elf and 
gnome communities where the land has 
been tilled and crops native to Gran March 
and Bissel are cultivated. The rich soil 
makes it easy to grow domestic crops. 

The variety of animal life is tremendous 
within the boundaries of the vale. There are 
many different kinds of apes, including a sig 
nificant population of carnivorous apes* and 
there are dozens of kinds of reptiles, such 
as lizards and snakes. Some of the reptiles 
are unusually large and are considered a 
bane to many of the mammals. Only one 
dragon is known to inhabit the land, ft is an 
evil green dragon controlled by the Exalted 
One's potions and spells. Large, colorful 
birds, including a species of blue and green 
parrots with a four-foot wingspan, are nu 
merous in the valley. Residents of some of 
the valley elf and gnome communities have 
domesticated several of these parrots, and 
a few of the mages within the communities 
have large parrots as familiars. Other large 
birds include giant owls. 

fn addition to the normal animal life, the 
valley is home to several fantastic creatures 
and monsters. Some residents of the valley 
believe the monsters are not native to the 
area, but found their way to the vale when 
human settlements in the neighboring coun 
try grew and cut down on their usual habi 
tat, Sightings of such creatures near the 
valley's entrance have served as a deter 
rent to explorers, adventurers, and curios 
ity seekers. 

Some of the varieties of monsters and 


fantastic creatures known to live in the vale 
include cockatrices, couatl, korred, lizard 
men, ogres, owlbears* pseudodragons, 
trolls, wolfweres, and yuan-ti. The num 
bers of each creature are relatively small 
and pose little threat to the communities of 
valley dves, tree people, and gnomes. 
However, small groups of the vale's resi 
dents and patrols sometimes fall prey to the 
creatures. The vale's residents have found 
ways to spot the creatures coming and have 
developed techniques for fighting them. 
Still, the creatures are feared and avoided 
when possible. Some of the creatures, such 
as the owlbears, were placed in locations 
within the valley by the Exalted One. 

The valley boasts hundreds of different 
kinds of insects, some of them giant-sized, 
such as wasps and bees. There are also 
groups of large spiders. 

Government 

The Exalted One rules the valley and is rec 
ognized as the supreme monarch by all of 
the valley elves, gnomes, and tree people 
living there* as well as by the mountain 
dwarves living on the vale side of the Bar 
rier Peaks, The Exalted One demands the 
respect and obedience of all the vale's resi 
dence, but he is not despotic, and he does 
not rule with an iron hand over all the com 
munities inliis domain. Instead, the Exalted 
One allows each community its own advi 
sors and leaders* believing that they can 
better determine the needs of their own 
people. 

The leaders report often to the Exalted 
One, discussing each community's accom 
plishments* discoveries* and problems. 
The leaders usually appoint members from 
their communities to the various patrols 
within the vale and supervise many of the 
defense plans. Because of the Exalted 
One's lack of interference in the communi 
ties ' day-today existence* the residents 
have come to admire him above all others. 
The Exalted One intercedes in the affairs of 
the communities only at the request of the 
leaders, when he is in need of extra patrols 
or defenses* or when he believes his sub 
jects are in jeopardy. 









Personalities of the 
Valley 

Jason Krimeah 
The Black One 
Male Human 
19th-Level Mage 

AC -3 (Dex bonus, bracers AC2 t cloak)* -5 
(when boots are also in use); MV 12 (22 
when boots are used); HD 10+9; hp 55; 
fAT 1; Dmg 1-6 (staff); SA spells; SE) 
spells; STR 8, DEX 17, CON 15. INT 19, 
WIS9, CHA 13; Spells: 5 1st, 5 2nd. 5 3rd, 
5 4th, 5 5th, 3 6th, 3 7th* 3 8th, 1 9th; AL 
NE (Neutral tendencies); THACO 14 

The Black One rules the Valley of the Mage, 
and many who live in the mysterious, well- 
defended land consider the mage and the 
valley inexorably linked. 

Jason Krimeah was bom to a wealthy and 
influential family in the capital of the Great 
Kingdom* A cousin of the Great King, he 
received the best training in magic gold 
could buy* acquiring costly spells and com 
ponents and studying under the court wiz 
ards. He quickly grew in magical power and 
could have easily become one of the King's 
court wizards, eventually rising to the post 
of Supreme Wizard because of his relation 
ship to the King* But Jason wanted more. 
He desired political power to complement 
his arcane strength-he wanted control of 
the Great Kingdom. However, despite Ja 
son's influence, magic, and support from 
distant relatives hungry for their own 
power, his bid to usurp the throne met with 
frustration* The kingship rested firmly in 
his cousin's grasp and was defended by the 
very court wizards who had trained him. 

The King, furious that his young cousin 
dared to try to steal the crown* banished Ja 
son from the Great Kingdom, threatening 
him with life in the dungeons if he was 
caught within the boundaries of the kingdom 
again. 

Jason* forever scarred by the incident and 
his hatred building* fled from the Great 
Kingdom in disgrace and adopted the name 
the Black One, which fit his dismal mood* 
He found work as a mage in the Bandit 
Kingdoms until he believed spies of the 
Great Kingdom pursued him* Jason began 
to believe that he was frequently being 


scried on by the Great Kingdom's court 
wizards and that agents of his cousin the 
King dogged his every step* He became ob 
sessed with magical defenses against un 
seen enemies and began traveling 
throughout the Flanaess to research defen 
sive spells. 

Jason started adopting assorted appear 
ances to hide Ids true identity. He grew in 
magical strength as he studied in the Shield 
Lands* the lands of the Homed Society* Fu- 
ryondy* Vehrna, Keoland* the Yeomanry, 
and Sterich* His wanderings eventually 
took him to a hidden valley nearly sur 
rounded by the Barrier Peaks. The valley 
looked easily defensible, so Jason chose to 
make his home there and bring the area un 
der his control He has lived there for dec 
ades and has no plans to leave. 

When he initially entered the valley he 
was corrupt and wicked, twisted by his fail 
ure to rule the Great Kingdom* However* 
after years of ruling the land he named the 
Valley of the Mage, he has mellowed and 
has grown to care for those who live under 
his jurisdiction* He still places himself first 
in all matters and would sacrifice those 
around him to save himself, but he no longer 
thinks solely of his own well being. Now the 
Black One is evil only when it suits him, and 
those moods usually arise when he deals 
with mysterious outsiders or suspected 
agents of the Great Kingdom* or when he is 
in pursuit of a new magical item. 

The mage is known by several names, 
the Black One being his favorite because of 
the fear and uncertainty it strikes in those 
who hear it* Known also as the Mage of the 
Vale or the Exalted Mage, he holds domin 
ion over the humans* demihumans* and 
many of the creatures living in the valley* 
He is recognized and feared by his reputa 
tion outside of the vale, although there are 
only a handful of people outside die valley 
who know him by sight. And those would 
have to strain their memories to place him, 
as he has secluded himself in the valley for 
many* many years. 

He assumes myriad visages, according to 
suits his mood and purpose and to prevent 
those he deals with from learning his real 
appearance. Some residents of the valley 
wonder if his closest, most trusted associ 
ates are the only ones who have seen his 
true face* 

Scholars outside the valley speculate that 


the Black One goes by many names and 
faces because he is mad and has multiple 
personalities* But the Black One is moder 
ately sane, despite his self-imposed soli 
tude, fear of spies* and obsession with 
defenses and magic. And although most 
who live in the lands around his valley be 
lieve he is consummate evil and his name 
matches the color of his soul, those in the 
valley see him as a just and wise protector 
who they respect and would defend with 
their lives. 

Within a year of moving into the valley, 
the Black One won the favor of the valley 
elves, gnomes, and the small band of hu 
mans living there by displaying his magical 
powers and proving himself their superior* 
Eventually they accepted him as their lord* 
They dubbed him the Exalted One* and 
most refuse to call him by any other name* 

The mage felt an immediate kinship with 
the valley elves because they are a reclu 
sive race desiring to be left alone. The val 
ley elves avoid contact with other races* 
except for the gnomes who also serve the 
Exalted One. And they work with the hu 
mans in the valley at the Exalted Ones in 
sistence, The mage sometimes puzzles at 
the elves' acceptance of him and willingness 
to follow his orders, but he welcomes their 
loyalty and has given them no cause to 
doubt him. 

The gnomes in the valley took an instant 
liking to the mage, in part because of his ob 
session with magic and his ability to change 
appearance. The mage enjoys the attention 
the gnomes lavish on him, and when he 
feels a need to lighten his mood he adopts 
one of his many guises and visits them* 

The mage does not feel as dose to or as 
strongly about the band of humans living 
deep within the valley, perhaps because it 
was humans who prevented him from gain 
ing control of the Great Kingdom. Still, the 
Exalted One has agreed to protect them in 
exchange for their help in fortifying the val 
ley* Although the mage does not recognize 
it, he has more in common with the humans 
than the valley elves* The small community 
of humans was founded by gypsies, thieves, 
and outcasts who were banished from coun 
tries outside of the valley, including from 
the Great Kingdom. The descendants of 
these castoffs are disdainful of the peoples 
outside the valley and have no desire to 
leave* 


5 









With the help of the valley elves and 
gnomes, the mage set up physical and magi 
cal defenses at the entrance to the valley 
and throughout the Barrier Peaks, He also 
established watches of gnomes, elves, hu 
mans, and charmed monsters to patrol the 
valley, and he employed the mountain 
dwarves living in the Barrier Peaks to 
watch for trespassers. Some of the mon 
sters in the watches were created by the 
Exalted One by magically experimenting on 
some of the native creatures to imbue them 
with special properties. 

The dwarves of the Barrier Peaks re 
cently finished construction of a keep filled 
with defenses and secret passages for the 
mage; it replaced a mansion built by the 
elves and gnomes and now occupied by 
creatures of the valley. The mage further 
enchanted his new keep with magical pro 
tections, including glyphs and permanent 
defensive spells. In addition, it is defended 
by valley elf sentries. 

Confident that at last his domain is se 
cure, the mage once again is immersing 
himself in magical research within his keep, 
letting the humans and demihumans am 
theirow f n lives and communities. The mage 
only intercedes when problems arise that 
they cannot handle or when he fears the 
communities are not getting along. And he 
calls on them to increase their patrols and 
security when he fears agents of the Great 
Kingdom might be near. 

The mage is finally as dose to being at 
peace as his obsessed mind allows. He is in 
control of a land that in his mind is more im 
portant than the Great Kingdom, he has 
subjects who follow his bidding and practi 
cally worship him, and in his fortified land he 
can pursue his arcane studies. 

He also continues to quest for powerful 
magical items, occasionally putting himself 
in danger by teleporting to the lairs of pow 
erful creatures to retrieve spell books and 
other objects. The elves and gnomes are 
concerned about the Exalted One's harrow 
ing trips, fearing that someday he will not 
return, but they realise their pleas for him 
to remain in the valley wiH not prevent him 
from pursuing magic. 

The Exalted One remains plagued with 
fears that agents of the Great Kingdom pur 
sue him, and he treats outsiders attempting 
to gain entrance to the valley as potential 
Great Kingdom agents. This obsession has 


been passed down to the valley elves and 
gnomes, who have also come to look upon 
outsiders as Great Kingdom people. The 
Exalted One maintains a network of valley 
elf spies in the countries outside his valley 
to watch for such agents and to perform 
various tasks. Security within the valley is 
increased when the spies report people ask 
ing too many questions about the Exalted 
One or the vale. 

The Exalted One's obsession with magic 
continues to increase, and he is driven to 
gain more magical items, create new spells, 
and learn more about magical forces. He is 
frustrated that his mortal life span wall pre 
vent him from studying for centuries. The 
frustration grows because the Exalted One 
sees the valley elves and gnomes age at a 
slower rate than humans, and he envies 
them. The mage has been magically cheat 
ing time through potions of longevity and 
other means, but he realizes they will not 
stave off death. 

He has the power to become a lich, which 
would enable him to study forever. How 
ever, he detests undead and is avoiding that 
route. Instead, he is working to become a 
shade, studying the arcane process to 
merge his form with shadowetuff from the 
plane of Shadow and become one of those 
beings. He is fairly confident he could ac 
complish the merging now, but he hopes to 
wait until the last moment because as a 
shade he could no longer gain levels as a 
mage. Because of the potions of longevity, 
he believes he will have up to several more 
decades before lbs mortal form becomes so 
frail that he must become a shade or die. 
The Exalted One has kept this plan a secret 
from his followers and his most trusted as 
sociate, The First Protector. 

In his true form, the mage is tall and thin, 
with pale olive skin and slate gray eyes. He 
appears to be about 40, but his actual age is 
more than double that. His wavy brown hair 
falls to his shoulders. His face is clean 
shaven. The mage frequently assumes 
other forms, using his hat of disguise and 
spells, when he roams the valley to test the 
human and demihuman patrols, meet with 
visitors he has allowed into the valley, and 
when he leaves the valley in pursuit of magi 
cal items. 

The mage has dozens of spell books, hun 
dreds of scrolls, and many magical items, 
the majority of which are carefully hidden 


and protected by glyphs and other spells. 
He relies on his spells for combat and de 
fense, avoiding hand-to-hand melee at all 
costs, as he considers it crude and risky. 

The magical items he always wears and 
carries include a ring of wizardry, ring of re 
generation, staff of the magi, wand of fire, 
wand of frost , cloak of displacement, gem of 
seeing r hat of disguise, boots of speed, and 
bracers of defense f AC 2 , 

Other magical items easily accessible, 
and sometimes carried, are ring of X-ray vi 
sion, ring of spell turning , ring of flying, rod 
of beguiling, wand of lightning, wand of fear, 
wand of paralyza tion t bag of holding (larges t 
capacity), chime of opening, crystal ball, 
cube of force, helm of teleportation, medal 
lion of ESP, robe of the archmag, the 
exalted one *, tome of recording * gem 
of musing *, and the exalted component 
case *, 

He can make nearly any potion he de 
sires. He favors carrying potions of ciairau- 
dience, clairvoyance, invulnerability, 
intensity *, and black sight *. 

The spells he usually has memorized are 
as follows: 

1st Level: change seif, charm person, chill 
touch, detect magic , unseen servant 
2nd Level: continual light t darkness 15* ra 
dius , ESP know alignment, web 
3rd Level: fireball, hold person, lightning 
bolt , protection from normal missiles, 
unmask * 

4th Level: defect scrying t dimension door, 
Evard r s black tentacles, ice storm, im 
proved in visibility 

5th Level; pass wall (x3), reflection * r wall 
of force 

6th Level: anti-magic shell, flesh to stone, 
true seeing 

7th Level: delayed blast fireball, the exalted 
eye *, reverse gravity 
8th Level: demand, incendiary cloud, sym 
bol 

9th Level: shape change 
* Created by the Black One 








^ 7 = 







New Spells Created by the Black 
One 

Third-Level Spell 
Unmask (Alteration) 

Range: 10 feet/level 
Components: V, S* M 
Duration: 1 rouud/level 
Casting Time: 3 
Area of Effect: 30-foot cube 
Saving Throw: None 

This spell empowers the caster to see crea 
tures* humans, and demihumans as they 
truly are* The spell affects all those within a 
30-foot cube, except the caster. The spell 
overcomes all disguises* including the ef 
fects of polymorph spells, change self, illu 
sions. and appearances caused by items 
such as a hat of difference. Only the caster 
sees the target creatures' true appear 
ances. Others see the creatures as their il 
lusions or spells show them to be. 

The caster can center the unmask spell 
up to 10 feet away from his body for each 
level of experience (e.g., a 5th-level caster 
can center the spell up to 50 feet away). 

The material component of the spell is a 
black piece of doth with two eye holes cut in 
it* 

Fifth-Level Spell 
Reflection (Alteration) 

Range: Special 
Components: V, S, M 
Duration: 1 round/4 levels 
Casting Time: 5 
Area of Effect: Caster 
Saving Throw: None 

By means of this spell, the wizard reflects 
all harmful 1st- through 3rd-level spells cast 
at him back upon the casters* The casters 
are allowed saving throws against their own 
spells * as applicable. The duration of this 
spell is one round for every four levels of 
experience the wizard has. For example, 
the spell lasts three rounds for a 12th-level 
wizard. 

The spell also reflects all normal and mag 
ical missiles hurled at the wizard during the 
spell's duration. The reflection spell does 
not affect attackers physically meleeing the 
wizard. 

The material component is a small mirror. 


Seventh-Level Spell 
The Exalted Eye (Alteration) 

Range: Special 
Components: V, S, M 
Duration: 1 round/levd 
Casting Time: 3 
Area of Effect: Special 
Saving Throw: None 

This is a much more powerful form of the 
wizard eye spell. By casting this spell* the 
wizard can view anywhere within a 10- 
square-mile area per level of the caster. For 
example, a 10 th-level wizard can view 
within a 100-square-mile area. The eye 
moves one mile per round, half that if it is 
searching for something* and everything in 
view of the eye is subject to the spell's auto 
matic clairaudience and clairvoyance abili 
ties. Further, the caster need not 
concentrate to use the exalted eye: he can 
perform other duties, rest, or cast other 
spells. 

The exalted eye cannot be seen by oth 
ers, but a detect magic spell will show its lo 
cation. A successful dispel magic wall end 
the exalted eye. 

The eye can move in any direction and, 
unlike a wizard eye, it can pass through 
solid objects, including living creatures. 
The exalted eye also can be used in conjunc 
tion with a crystal bail * giving the caster a 
much greater range. The caster uses the 
crystal ball to observe an area* and then 
casts the exalted eye through the ball to 
whatever range the caster's level allows the 
eye to wander 

The exalted eye is in some respects an 
extension of the caster's mind. Therefore, 
if the caster has the ability to communicate 
telepathically, he can do so through the eye. 

The material component is an eyelash 
from the caster. 

New Magical Items Created by 
the Black One 

Potion of Intensity: Quaffing this potion 
causes all spells cast by the imbiber within 
the next three rounds to have the maximum 
effect. For example, a priest drinking this 
potion can cure the maximum amount of hit 
points possible with healing spells during 
the next three rounds* or a wizard can 
cause the maximum amount of damage with 


a fireball or any other spell during the po 
tion's duration. 

However* there is a drawback to the po 
tion. It so drains the imbiber of energy fol 
lowing its three-round duration that the 
imbiber cannot cast spells during the three 
rounds following the potion's expiration. 

Potion of Black Sight: This potion en 
ables the imbiber to see as well in darkness 
as he could in daylight. This does not work 
in magical darkness. The potion's effects 
last for 10d8 minutes. 

Tome of Recording: A book such as this 
can be any size, although most are usually 
thick, bound with leather, and decorated 
with gold or silver embossings. When a 
command word is spoken, the book 
records-in one of several languages of the 
user's choice-anything spoken within a 20- 
foot radius of the book. A second command 
word causes the book to stop recording. A 
third command erases the writing on any in 
dicated page. 

Books such as these are prized by 
scholars and mages who use them to record 
idle thoughts that can be crucial to their re 
search. 

The books are also prized as spying ob 
jects* as carefully-placed books can record 
the conversations of alleged conspirators, 
rival wizards, or any others. 

Each book can record in ld6 languages. 

Gem Of Musing: This item is useable 
by wizards only. By contemplating the gem 
for one hour, a wizard can regain one spell of 
1st- through 4th-levei that he cast previ 
ously during the day. The gem can be used 
up to three times a day. 

A gem of musing appears to be a flawed 
precious stone* usually an emerald or sap 
phire, The gem radiates faintly if a detect 
magic spell is cast upon it. 

The Exalted Component Case: This 
magical item, which usually appears as a 
soft leather pouch, acts as the smallest size 
bag of holding and is enchanted to keep all 
spell components stored inside fresh indefi 
nitely. Further, the container is water-tight 
and air-tight. 


7 







Tysiln San 

First Protector 
Female Drew 

9th-Level Wizard (Conjurer) 

AC 2 (bracers. AC 4 and cloak of displace 
ment) ; MV 12; HD 9; hp 35; #AT 1; Dmg by 
weapon type (staff of striking, dagger); SA 
female drow abilities, spells; SD female 
drow abilities, spells; STR 12. DEX 13, 
CON 17, fNT20, WIS9, CHA 13; Spells: 5 
1st, 4 2nd. 4 3rd, 3 4 th, 2 5th; AL CN; 
TI1AC0 19 

Tysiln San was bom in the Vault of the Drow 
and trained in magic by her merchant fam 
ily; she is a conjurer, a specialist wizard con 
centrating on spells from the school of 
conjuration and summoning. In her youth 
she was loyal to her family and assisted in 
their plans to overthrow the priestesses of 
Lolth, However, her family's plans were 
quashed, and Tysiln was forced to flee for 
her life-straight into the path of a human 
mage who was in the Vault of the Drow in 
search of magic. Pitying her, the mage 
agreed to take her to the surface with him. 
Tysiln doubts that any members other fam 
ily survived; since so much time has passed 
and her allegiances have changed, she has 
no desire to find out. 

The surface world, with its large, open 
areas, initially terrified Tysiln. The mage 
who took her in worked hard to overcome 
her fears and gave her a set of glassteeled 
mirrored lenses that enabled her to see as 
well in daylight as she did In the dark. The 
mage treated her fairly, and the pair became 
close friends. To repay his kindness, Tysiln 
devoted the next decade to assisting the 
mage in his arcane experiments, until one of 
the experiments got away from the mage 
and killed him. Only her drow abilities saved 
her from the suffering the same fate. 

Alone again, and fearful of becoming close 
to anyone because she didn't want to get 
emotionally hurt, Tysiln wandered for sev 
eral years until she settled in a halfling com 
munity where she cast spells in exchange 
for food, clothes, and shelter. She remained 
distant from the haiflings, who did their best 
to make her feel comfortable and accepted. 
The sedentary life bored her, however. 
Worried because she found herself getting 
attached to the small people, she left after 
three years. 


Her only true companion was her familiar, 
Inez, a large blue-black raven of unusual in 
telligence. Tysiln had no desire to return to 
the underground. She had become so ac 
customed to the surface and many of the 
creatures there, and she knew the under 
ground would not agree with Inez, so she 
began to wander again. The pair eventually 
came upon the Dim Forest in the Valley of 
the Mage, and decided to make it their 
home because it seemed remote and void of 
settlements. 

However, she soon learned otherwise 
when she was roughly captured by a patrol 
of valley elves. Believing her a spy for the 
Great Kingdom, they took her before the 
Exalted One. The mage was still building 
his defenses in the valley and recognized 
that a skilled drow wizard, who had no 
present ties or allegiances, could be a wel 
come addition to his forces* 

Despite her vows to remain emotionally 
unattached to anyone, Tysiln San became 
infatuated with the Exalted One and swore 
to do his bidding. The mage tested her, 
placing her in situations of greater and 
greater danger. However, she passed all the 
tests and won his trust and his heart. She 
became his mistress and most trusted asso 
ciate, commanding the guard forces and su 
pervising the magical and physical defenses 
of the valley's entrance. 

Tysiln believes she has reached her full 
potential-being in charge of forces within 
the valley and responsible for the defense of 
her beloved. She spends several hours each 
day instructing the guard forces and check 
ing the magical and physical defenses at the 
valley's entrance in an attempt to make 
them better. She uses the Exalted One's 
crystal ball as often as is safe to scan the 
area for intruders, and instructs Inez to reg 
ularly fly over the valley and report anything 
unusual. 

Tysiln realizes the Exalted One would 
sacrifice her to save himself and always 
places himself above her, but she accepts 
her fate. She is so taken by the mage that 
she would gladly discard her life in the de 
fense of his. She is concerned about the Ex 
alted One's humanity; she knows she has a 
much longer life span than he, and she fears 
the day when he will die and leave her alone 
again, Tysiln knows the mage is using magic 
to prolong his life and suspects he is re 
searching magic to keep him alive indefi 


nitely. However, she respects his privacy 
and does not question him on this. 

Because of her close association with the 
mage, Tysiln has come to share many of his 
strengths and foibles. She has acquired an 
intense desire to learn more spells and gain 
more magical items. She frequently joins 
the mage in arcane research, heedless of 
any danger to her and casting aside memo 
ries of the past destruction her former 
mage-companion brought about during Ins 
research. Tysiln also lias picked up the 
mage's superstition of outsiders, but not to 
the same degree. She does not believe that 
all trespassers are agents of the Great 
Kingdom, and she questions all strangers 
who find their way into the valley before de 
termining their fates, 

Tysiln associates with the leaders of the 
valley elves, gnomes, and humans in the 
vale, but she has not relaxed her guard 
enough to become friends with any of them. 
They accept her-despite her race- 
because she is the confidant of the Exalted 
One. And she is certain they follow her in 
structions for the same reason. 

Inez (a huge raven familiar): AC 6; MV 1/ 
27; HD 1-1; hp 11 (above normal because it 
is a familiar); #AT 1; Dmg 1-2; Int Semi-; S 
medium; THACO 20 

The magical items she usually wears and 
carries include bracers of protection AC 4, 
cloak of displacement, ring of chameleon 
power, staff of striking, bag of holding (larg 
est capacity), boots of elvenkind , wand of 
magic detection r dagger 4-2, and a brooch 
of shielding (can absorb 76 points of magic 
missile damage). She is given the use of 
other items as needed by the Exalted One. 

Potions she usually carries include extra - 
healing, healing, Ere breath, gaseous form, 
invisibility, Eying , and polymorph self. 

Her innate drow abilities enable her to 
cast the following spells, each once per day: 
dancing lights, faerie Ere, darkness, detect 
magic, know alignment, levitate, clairvoy 
ance, detect lie t suggestion, and dispel 
magic * 

Spells she usually lias memorized are as 
follows; 

1st Level: burning hands, charm person, 
chill touch, grease, unseen servant 
2nd Level: glitterdust, Melfs arid arrow, 
ray of enfeeble ment, spectral hand , 
summon swarm 

3rd Level: (lame arrow, monster summon- 


8 







ing f, spectral force, vampiric touch 
4 th Level: e no nation, E yard's black tenta 
cles, monster summoning 11 
5th Level: monster summoning 111\ sum 
mon shadow 

Summerstorm Nightwind 

Leader of the Three Villages 
Male Valley Elf 
8th-Level Cleric 

AC 0 (cloak +3, ring +3, and Dex bonus); 
MV 12: HD 12; hp 47; MT 1: D by weapon 
type (staff +2, mace +1); SA spells: SD 
spells: STR 13, DEX 18, CON 11, INT 16, 
W1S 18, CHA 18; Spells: 8 1st, 7 2nd, 7 
3rd, 4 4th, 2 5th, 2 6th: AL CN (Neutral 
tendencies): THACO 14 

Summerstorm Nightwind is the elected 
leader of the three villages of valley elves in 
the Valley of the Mage, The youngest valley 
elf to have ever attained this position, he 
was unanimously selected by the elders of 
Vinestrong, Moonhollow, and Darkglade 
villages at the suggestion of the Exalted 
One. Summerstorm is 400 years old and 
slight of build even for a valley df. He has 
piercing, Ice-blue eyes and shoulder-length 
pale blond hair that gives the impression of 
youth. Summerstorm is also the first leader 
in 3,000 years to not have a warrior back 
ground. He dresses in deep green robes 
that help him blend in with the forest. He 
refuses to wear the silver crown of Ins of 
fice, believing it too ostentatious, 

Summerstorm grew up in the Vinestrong 
village, the one closest to the entrance of 
the valley. His parents, respected fighters 
in the village, were among a force that regu 
larly raided merchant caravans outside the 
valley to gain potions, goods, and exotic 
foodstuffs. However, one targeted caravan 
was heavily protected by high-level adven 
turers who made short work of the valley 
elves. When the village learned of the trag 
edy, they halted the raids for the next sev 
eral years, 

Summerstorm was taken in by a village 
elder, an aging nature priestess who 
schooled him in clerical magic. He found 
himself more suited to this profession than 
fighting, and he quickly rose in ability, gain 
ing the admiration of his peers. The priest 
ess taught him to respect nature, and most 
of Summerstorm F s spells reflect that, ena 


bling him to communicate with plants and 
animals and control them when necessary'. 
The valley elf is so engrossed in nature that 
he has come to prefer the company of ani 
mals to that of his people. However, he al 
ways places his people and the Exalted One 
first, 

Summerstorm relishes isolation, some 
thing he rarely can afford, given his posi 
tion. A loner, he leads his people out of what 
he believes is necessity, never letting him 
self get close to any of his people, and pro 
fessing friendship to only a handful of them. 
Like all valley elves, Summerstorm prefers 
to associate only with others of his own 
race. He tolerates the gnomes, with whom 
the valley elves work under the direction of 
the Exalted One. And although he trusts 
the liuPnans, who also patrol the valley at 
the behest of the Exalted One. he does not 
like their company* 

The Exalted One is the only human Sum 
merstorm respects. In fact, the valley elf is 
so awed by the Exalted One that he lives to 
serve the mage and directs his people to do 
the same* Summerstorm will even order 
raids against merchant caravans and trav 
elers if he is certain they cany' magic that 
will interest the Exalted One. Summer- 
storm is favored by the Exalted One be 
cause of his command of clerical magic, his 
zest for life, and his unswerving devotion to 
the mage and the valley* He was the first 
valley elf the mage encountered in the vale, 
coming upon him while he communed with 
nature, Summerstorm would have fled from 
or fought the mage, but there was some 
thing about the human s presence that en 
tranced him. The mage soon w r on the valley 
elf5 trust and confided in him about his ban 
ishment from the Great Kingdom and his 
desire to leave humankind alone. The pair 
became as dose to being friends as either 
would allow* 

Summerstorm supports the Exalted One 
because the mage is consumed with defend 
ing the valley and keeping outsiders from 
entering. This was a goal Summerstorm 
had dreamed of, but never had believed 
possible* He personally trains the clerics 
assigned to patrols in the valley, and selects 
some of the best fighters to head the pa 
trols. Summerstorm is confident the valley 
elves will grow and prosper under their ar 
rangement with the Exalted One. 

The few strangers who breach the val 


ley's defenses, and who are caught by val 
ley elf patrols, are brought before 
Summerstorm. He is skeptical of all outsid 
ers, and they must prove themselves to him 
or be banished from the valley or killed. 
Summerstorm relies on his and other vil 
lage clerics' abilities to determine if the 
strangers are telling the truth* Summer 
storm does not like to bother the Exalted 
One, and so will try to deal with the stran 
gers on his own. Only the most enigmatic 
intruders are brought before the Exalted 
One. 

Summerstorm splits most of his time be 
tween the three villages. However, he also 
likes to take lime out every few weeks to 
make a circuit of the valley. He is usually ac 
companied by an escort of six 7th-level 
fighters, four 4th-level fighters, two mages 
or clerics, and two cooshee; the escort is 
halved when Summerstorm desires a small 
measure of solitude. When there is trouble 
in the valley, the other elves insist he travel 
with more escorts. Occasionally, Summer 
storm is able to sneak away from his escorts 
and spend several hours alone in the woods. 

Summerstorm has major access to the 
priestly spheres of All, Animal, Charm* 
Creation. Divination, Healing, Plant, Pro 
tection, Sun, and Weather, and he has minor 
access to the spheres of Combat and 
Guardian. 

Summerstorm usually wears and carries 
a ring of protection +3, cloak of protection 
+3, boots of elvenkind, staff +2 r mace 
+ h wand of magic detection, and six beads 
of force. The beads and wand were gifts 
from the Exalted One* 

The spells Summerstorm usually carries 
are as follows: 

1st Level: bless, command, cure light 
wounds (x3), detect evil * invisibility to 
animals , purify food and drink 
2nd Level: chant, charm person or mam 
mal r messenger, hold person, know 
alignment , obscurement. speak with an 
imals 

3rd Level: hold animal, plant growth , 
prayer, snare, spike growth , stars bine, 
summon insects 

4th Level: cure serious wounds * hallucina 
tory forest, plant door, speak with plants 
5th Level: commune with nature, cure criti 
cal wounds 

6th Level: hed* transport via plants 


9 







Endoble Mistikmore 

Chief of Woodsdeep 
Male Gnome 

10th-Level Wizard (Illusionist) 

AC 3 {ring + 3 , cloak +2, Dex bonus); MV 
12; HD 10; hp 30; AT 1; Dmg by weapon 
type (dagger, staff); SA spells; SD spells; 
STR 12, DEX 18, CON 10, INT 18. VjlS 
15, CHA 17; Spelts: 5 1st, 5 2nd, 4 3rd, 3 
4th, 3 5th; AL NG: THACO 17 

At 399 years of age, Endoble is one of the 
oldest gnomes in the burrow village of 
Woodsdeep, Although he is actually one 
year younger than Summerstonm of the val 
ley elves, he is comparatively much older, 
considering the life spans of the two races. 
The two leaders have an amiable relation 
ship because of the Exalted One's dictates, 
but Endoble believes Summerstorm lacks 
the essential skills to lead his people. And 
when the pair is together, Endoble flaunts 
what he believes are Ids leadership skills, 
hoping Summer storm will learn something. 

Leadership of the gnome village, which 
has a population of about 200. is passed 
down through inheritance; from the current 
leader to his eldest offspring when the 
leader believes he is too old to be effective. 
The badge of office is an ornate silver 
bracer that was made from ore mined by the 
first village leader. 

The time is coming soon for Endoble to 
pass the leadership to his eldest daughter. 
The elderly gnome is becoming slightly se 
nile, but his lucid periods are long, and the 
village elders want him to remain in charge 
of the village for as long as possible, as the 
village has prospered under his care. Fur 
ther, the elders know the gnome is close to 
the Exalted One, a fact that has benefited 
the village. 

Endoble has lead the gnomes of Woodsdeep 
for the past 150 years and has become dear to 
the hearts of all die gnomes. Endoble is jovial 
and sometimes childlike, using his magic to 
fashion elaborate practical jokes on the valley 
elves and humans in the vale. He is careful not 
to take the jokes too far, as he appreciates the 
working relationship the three races have un 
der die Exalted One. 

Endoble is devoted to the Exalted One. 
The elderly gnome's first love is magic, and 
the Exalted One has a control over magic that 
Endoble did not believe could be attained. The 


gnome basks in the human mage s presence 
and spends every possible opportunity at the 
mage's side in the Iwpes he can team new 
magic. The Exalted One has humored liim, 
teaching him a few spells and giving him magi 
cal items, such as Noizur's marvelous pig 
ments. In exchange, the gnome taught the 
Exalted One much about the valley and the 
gnomes living there. 

Endoble is a specialist wizard, concen 
trating in spells from the school of illusion. 
He teaches the brightest gnomes in the vil 
lage how best to use phantasmal force 
spells and other illusions. 

Endoble usually wears and carries a ring 
of protection +3. cloak of protection +2 t 
wand of earth and stone (59 charges), wand 
of wonder (40 charges), periapt of health, 
Keoghtom's ointment. Noizur's marvelous 
pigments, dust of tracelessness, six potions 
of rainbow hues , potion of dairaudience. 
and a potion of clairvoyance. 

in addition to the above items, Endoble s 
village is in possession of an apparatus of 
Kwalish * which the Exalted One has no de 
sire to take away. Endoble is very fond of 
the magical vehicle, and frequently uses it 
to travel around the valley. Of course, he 
could move more quickly under his own 
power. But he believes the vehicle makes 
him more powerful and impressive. He 
sometimes uses the dust of tracelessness 
to cover the passage of the apparatus. 

Endoble has been known to follow gnome 
patrols in the apparatus to make sure they 
are properly defending the vale. 

Spells Endoble usually carries include the 
following: 

1st Level: audible glamer, change self, Nys- 
tul s magical aura, phantasmal force, 
ventriloquism 

2nd Level: foot's gold, hypnotic pattern, in 
visibility, mirror image, whispering wind 
3rd Level: dispel magic, illusionary script, 
spectral force , wraith form 
4th Level: illusionary wall minor creation, 
shadow monsters 

5th Level: advanced illusion , shadow door, 
shadow magic 

Zurt 

Chieftain of the Tree People 
Male Human 
9th-Level Fighter 

AC 3 {leatherarmor +3 W Dex bonus); MV 


12: HD 9; hp 82; #AT 3/2; Dmg by weapon 
type (usually a short sword); STR 17, DEX 
17. CON 18, INT 13, WIS 12, CHA 14; AL 
CN; THAC-0 12 

Zurt is a 40-year-old, dark-skinned, dark 
haired human who won the right to com 
mand the tree people through a ritualistic 
combat. The grandson of a gypsy fortune 
teller, he believes strongly in consulting the 
stars and forces of nature before taking 
action. However, he never questions the 
Exalted One's orders and is willing to risk 
his life to do the mage's bidding. 

The ancestors of the tree people were 
gypsies, thieves, and outcasts who were 
driven from their own lands. Coming upon 
the valley, they believed they had found 
peace. However, Lhey were not welcome 
by the gnomes living in burrows and the val 
ley elves living on the ground. In response, 
the humans took to living in the great trees 
and kept themselves isolated from the 
other races. When the Exalted One came to 
the valley he changed all that, demanding 
that the races cooperate. 

Zun, a young fighter at the time, admired 
the mage for doing what the human tribe 
liad been unable to achieve. Zurt s admira 
tion of the mage grew through the years, 
and when he claimed the title of chieftain ten 
years ago, he made all the tree people 
pledge their lives to the defense of the mage 
and the valley. 

Zurt is a warrior; he insists that all young 
men and women under his charge learn 
fighting skills. He wants his people to be 
prepared for the day invaders from the 
Great Kingdom come into the valley, He 
also wants his people to be more powerful 
than the valley elves and gnomes, as be is 
confident that humans are the greater race. 

He spends several hours each day practic 
ing his own skills. Although lie is preoccupied 
with building his muscles, he is not without 
gentler pursuits, Zurt studies the stars and 
lias tlie astrology proficiency. He calls village 
meetings when certain stars are aligned and 
directs the tree people's shaman to conduct 
ceremonies to honor the heavens. 

Zurt usually wears and carries leather ar 
mor +3, bracers of brachiation (a gift from 
the Exalted One), longbow +1, and boots 
of elvenkind. He possess a crystal ball that 
belonged to his grandmother, but he cannot 
use it. 








the Valley elves 


Scholars who visited the vale before the 
time of the Exalted One studied the reclu 
sive valley elves and recorded their belief 
that the elves were an offshoot of the high 
elven race that settled in the vale and 
evolved through the centuries. However, 
the valley elves are in fact a separate race of 
elvenkind that traces its presence in the 
vale back about 15.000 years. This was the 
first demihuman race to make a permanent 
home of the vale. Nfolley elves, who are also 
found in the wilderness around the Valley of 
the Mage, are thoroughly detailed in vol 
ume 5 of the AfonstroLfs Compendium. 

The valley elves are unswervingly loyal 
to the Exalted One and do his bidding by es 
tablishing patrols throughout the vale, occa 
sionally raiding merchant caravans outside 
the vale for magical items, and reporting 
any unusual occurrences inside the vale that 
might interest him. In addition, the most 
magically inclined of the elves help the Ex 
alted One with magical research. 

The elves tolerate the gnomes in the vale 
because the mage demands that the races 
work together to protect the area. At 
times, however, the elves' patience wears 
thin, as the gnomes enjoy playing pranks 
with their illusions. The elves for the most 
part also accept the tree people. Many of 
the valley elves consider the tree people a 
sub-species of humans because of their gut 
tural language. However, they accept the 
tree people more readily than other humans 
because of the tree people's obvious re 
spect for nature. Some elves are able to 
look past their prejudices and recognize the 
tree people as their equals in intelligence. 

Combat 

The valley elves prefer to fight on their 
own, making patrols and hunting parties 
from their own communities. However, 
when they must join forces with the gnomes 
and tree people, they assert themselves so 
they are in charge of the band. The valley 
elves, like the other demibumans in the 
vale, use their surroundings to their advan 
tage at all times, hiding in the trees and un 
derbrush until the proper time to strike. 

The valley elves favor long bows crafted 
from the idani tree. These special bows gain 


a +1 to the attack roll because the wood is 
so supple yet strong. Arrows are likewise 
fashioned from these trees. Some valley 
elves prefer to use ebonwood arrows, 
which they trade for with the tree people. In 
hand-to-hand combat, the elves use long 
swords and other weapons that were given 
to them by the Exalted One, appropriated 
from trespassers, or purchased from the 
mountain dwarves. The more experienced 
fighters use the communities' magical 
weapons. 

Valley elves who do not show an aptitude 
for magic are trained from a young age to 
hunt and defend themselves. Therefore, 
any valley elf encountered is at least a 1st- 
level fighter. About 50% of the valley elf 
population in the vale are ist-level fighters; 
30% are 2nd- through Sth-level fighters (a 
very small percentage are higher level fight 
ers); the remaining 20% are evenly divided 
between wizards and priests. 

Wizards and Priests 

Most of the wizards are specialists con 
centrating in the schools of enchantment/ 
and charm or alteration, Valley elf wizards 
are honored in their communities, as they 
are considered to be following in the steps 
of the Exalted One, They have high posi 
tions in the communities and are not ex 
pected to perform the menial tasks 
expected of other elves. 

The elves, like the gnomes in the vale, 
worship Ehlonna. The clerics have major 
access to the spheres of All, Animal, Plant, 
Healing, Divination, and Sun, as well as mi 
nor access to the spheres of Weather and 
Protection. The clerics, although respected 
because of their curative powers, are not 
regarded as highly as the wizards. 

The valley elves are fond of magical items, 
whether weapons, miscellaneous objects, or 
potions. All magical items they recover from 
raiding merchant caravans or from capturing 
trespassers are turned over to the Exalted 
One. However, the mage returns all items he 
is not interest in; most of these items are con 
sidered community' property and are allocated 
to elves on patrols or special missions for the 
Exalted One. 


Society and 
Government 

The majority of the population of valley- 
elves is divided between the Vinestrong, 
Moonhollow, and Darkglade villages: the 
first two villages have about 800 elves each, 
while Darkglade boasts about 1,200. The 
remainder of the elves live in bands of 100 
to 200 throughout the vale. These smaller 
communities are unnamed. 

Summerstorm Night wind, the valley elf 
cleric who leads his people, divides his time 
between the three villages, although he 
spends a little more time in Darkglade, 
which is the community farthest from the 
entrance to the vale. He was chosen for this 
position by the elves, primarily at the rec 
ommendation of the Exalted One. Under 
him are the leaders of each of the villages 
and their councils . All village officials are ap 
pointed by the residents, although the 
wishes of Summerstorm and the Exalted 
One play a heavy role in the outcome of the 
elections. 

There is lit tie crime in the valley elf com 
munities. Penalties are severe to discour 
age wrongdoing. Elves accused of crimes 
are brought before the village communities: 
those accused of crimes in the outlying 
settlements are brought before the nearest 
council. If gnomes or tree people are ac 
cused of committing a wrong against the 
valley elves, a council of the elves and the 
accused's peers decides judgment. The el- 
ven clerics using detect lie spells are usually 
quick to determine what happened and who 
was at fault. Summerstorm is consulted on 
the most difficult matters. 

Strangers in the vale are usually brought 
before Summerstorm, if the patrol that lo 
cated the strangers had valley elves in it. 
Summerstorm usually confronts the stran 
gers with pointed questions before the en 
tire village. The valley elves do not believe 
in secrecy within their communities. 


11 
















the tRee people 


The ancestors of the tree people were gyp 
sies, thieves, and rogues who moved into 
the Valiev of the Mage to avoid prosecution 
from the surrounding countries or because 
they had been banished from them. The 
people, who also included escaped slaves 
from the Great Kingdom and criminals who 
had broken out of prisons, were forced to 
band together for protection against the 
horrible creatures in the valley. They made 
their homes in the trees to keep away from 
the land-bound predators, and they learned 
to deal with the creatures that flew and 
climbed the trees. Eventually* the outcasts, 
who originally numbered about 100, came 
to accept the valley as their home and ended 
all plans to return to the outside countries. 

Through, the next several generations, 
the humans, who began to call themselves 
the tree people, adapted better to the vale. 
Combining aspects of their ancestors' 
tongues, they developed a crude language 
that all of them could understand, a rough 
form of the common speech that sounds 
guttural and incomplete. The valley elves 
and gnomes have learned to comprehend 
the language, and consider the tree people 
beneath them because the language is sim 
ple and crude. Only the Exalted One and the 
most astute of the valley elves recognize 
that the tree people are intelligent. Their 
elaborate thatch and wood homes con 
structed high in the ebon wood trees attest 
to their wits and creativity, and their ability 
to overcome their hardships and deal with 
the creatures and the land is evidence of 
their persistence and unyielding will. 

In addition to their guttural common 
tongue, the tree people also speak the lan 
guage of the apes in the vale, which sounds 
like a series of unconnected barks and 
screeches. The tongue of the apes is a 
child-like form of communication used to 
get across basic needs, desires* and emo 
tions. 

Physical Appearance 

The tree people are a thin but muscular 
race. The average male is six feet tall, with 
females only a few inches shorter. Their 
skin is bronzed from the constant exposure 
to the sun, and their hair, which they crop 


close to their scalps, ranges in color from 
dark brown to pale blond, although most of 
the tree people have blond hair. They keep 
their hair short because of the heat and be 
cause of the myriad insects that are prone 
to nest or get tangled in long hair. Their eye 
color is predominantly green or brown. 

The tree people wear few clothes, cover 
ing their torsos with light animal hides or 
doth given them by the Exalted One. The 
hot sun would make it too uncomfortable for 
them to wear more; only in the coolest of 
the winter months do they wear capes or 
cloaks. 

Nearly all of the tree people are dexter 
ous, and they are able to travel through the 
trees as fast as they can move along the 
ground* They swing from the many vines 
that hang from the tall ebon wood and idani 
trees, and they jump from branch to branch 
like agile monkeys. 

The statistics for average tree people are 
as follows: 1st- to 3rd-tevel Fighters; AC 7; 
MV 12, 15 (through the trees); HD 1 to 3; 
Drag ld8 (long bow), ld4 (dagger), ld6 
(short swords), 1 {blowgun needle dart); 
SA -3 penalty to opponents* surprise rolls, 
sleep poison darts; SD use trees for cover; 
THACO varies; Morale steady (12). All tree 
people have the abilities of lst-level rang 
ers* 

Combat 

The tree people are taught from an early 
age to fight, hunt, track, and live off the 
land; thus the majority of juvenile and adult 
tree people encountered are fighters of 1st 
through 3rd level. For every 30 normal tree 
people encountered there is one 4th-level 
fighter in charge of the band. And for every 
50 tree people encountered there are an ad 
ditional 5th-Jevel fighter and tw T o 4th-level 
fighters. Groups larger than that have a few 
fighters of up to 8th level. 

The tree people's favored weapon is the 
long bow. The arrows are fashioned from 
fallen ebon wood trees and are especially 
fine and hard. The tree people are able to 
use the bows with equal ability from the 
ground or the trees. In melee combat they 
use daggers and short swords* which they 
appropriate from trespassers in the vale or 


are given by the Exalted One. The highest 
level fighters use weapons handed down 
from their ancestors* some of which are 
magical. 

About 25% of the tree people also employ 
blowguns that have darts coated with po 
tent sleep poisons or numbing poisons* The 
poisons are prepared from the dark blos 
soms that grow on the vines hanging from 
trees* Creatures struck by the sleep darts 
must roll successful saving throws vs. poi 
son or suffer ld6 points of damage and fall 
asleep for ld8 rounds* Creatures that save 
suffer the ld6 points of damage but do not 
fall asleep* The numbing poison causes the 
same damage, but creatures struck by it 
must roll successful saving throws vs. poi 
son or fall to the ground unable to move for 
ld8 rounds: the creatures are conscious but 
do not have control of their muscles* 

Because these people are so at home in 
the trees, they impose a -3 penalty to oppo 
nents' surprise rolls when using the trees' 
foliage to hide themselves* They also use 
the foliage for concealment; when firing ar 
rows from the trees* the tree people are 
considered to have 50% concealment* im 
proving their Armor Class by -2. The tree 
people's usual tactic is to surround their 
target-whether argumentative tres 
passers in the vale or an animal that is soon 
to be dinner. They fire on it from the trees 
with arrows or blowgun darts until their 
quarry is killed, asleep, or unable to move. 
Some of the young fighters prefer to fire an 
initial volley of arrows and then dose to en 
gage their quarry in melee* thus demon 
strating their bravery. 

Wizards and Priests 

There are no wizards among the tree peo 
ple, Although some of their ancestors once 
practiced spells from various schools of 
magic, the tree people lost the art through 
the years and became suspicious of the ar 
cane. The tree people remain suspicious of 
others who cast spells, including the 
gnomes and valley elves with whom they 
share the vale. 

There are clerics among the tree people; 
usually one or two can be found for each 
group of 50 encountered. The majority of 


13 







the clerics live in the Ebon wood village. 
The clerics, like the other tree people, wor 
ship Lirr, the goddess of prose, poetry, and 
art. Their beliefs in Lirr were passed down 
from their gypsy ancestors. The clerics 
have major access to the spheres of Ait, 
Healing, Combat, and Protection, as well as 
minor access to the spheres of Plants, 
Guardian, and Divination. The tree people 
clerics range in level from 1st through 4th; 
none have attained a higher level of ability. 

The clerics are revered among the people 
because of their ability to cure others and 
negate poisons. The clerics are taught to 
defend themselves, but they are prohibited 
from joining valley patrols and hunting par 
ties for fear they will be injured or killed. 

Society and 
Government 

There are about 800 tree people in the vale, 
and all of them-except the patrols-live 
within a 200-mile radius of the great falls. 

The largest of the tree people communi 
ties is the Ebonwood village, where about 
250 tree people live. There are 12 addi 
tional, lesser communities, each with an av 
erage population of 40 to 60. The names of 
those villages are Tambor, Fortune, Seer, 
Danz, Swindle, Mooch, Plunder. Snaffle, 
Scamp, Kardz, Vagabond, and Little Bissel. 

The homes are constructed of thatch and 
wood and are built 30 to 40 feet off the 
ground. Each home, which has three or four 
rooms, houses a single family. Tree people 
who have no families live alone in smaller 
homes or share a large communal building 
that has ten to 12 rooms. 

The villages are well defended. Each has 
several sentries posted at all times, and 
there is a series of pit traps constructed 
around the perimeter to catch land-bound 
predators. In addition, the villages with res 
ident clerics (of 3rd or 4th level) are pro 
tected nightly by wyver/i watch spells. 

Male tree people are considered more 
important than females, and only they can 
rise to leadership positions in the communi 
ties, The vale patrols are entirely male, as 
they consider protecting the interests of the 
Exalted One too important a job for fe 
males. However, females are allowed to be 
come clerics, participate in hunting parties, 
and guard the communities as sentries. The 


females are not allowed to lead such parties 
or watches, and must always take orders 
from the men in the groups. The females 
are charged with protecting the families and 
teaching their children basic fighting skills. 
Once the children reach adolescence F how 
ever, the men take over the training. 

The strongest and most able men in the 
communities are the leaders. The overall 
leader of the tree people, Zurt, who is de 
tailed in his own entry on page 10, lives in 
Ebonwood village and is considered the 
ruler of all the tree people. Each community 
has a leader who reports to ZurL 
Leadership is passed through combat. 
When the present leader gets weak and too 
old to lead a community, he selects three 
men who he believes are the strongest and 
wisest in the community. These men must 
perform tasks that push their abilities to the 
limit and culminate in fighting single- 
handedly one of the vale's monsters. The 
winner is appointed the next leader. The 
overall ruler of the tree people is selected in 
much the same manner. 

Despite their allegiance to Zurt and the 
other leaders, the tree people are most 
faithful to the Exalted One, who visits each 
community once a year. Each community 
prepares a great feast and celebration, hop 
ing to outdo the other communities. 

Tree people justice is simple. When a 
member of a community is accused of theft 
or of harming a resident of the vale, he or 
she is brought before a council of the elders 
of the community. Murder is the only crime 
punishable by death among the tree people. 
Other crimes are punished through work 
details or banishment, When a crime in 
volves something outside of the tree peo 
ple's lives, the matter is taken before the 
First Protector or the Exalted One. 

Ecology 

The tree people are primarily meat eaters, 
living off of the various animals that roam 
through the Valley of the Mage. They are 
most fond of the large lizards found along 
the river. The tree people do not eat the 
meat of apes. In fact, bands of apes, often 
orangutans, are usually found near tree 
people communities. The tree people are 
also able fishermen, regularly netting fish 
from the lakes and rivers near their com 
munities. 


The tree people do not use any form of 
currency, trading among themselves, the 
gnomes, and the valley elves, for food 
items, doth, and household utensils. How 
ever, many tree people families have caches 
of silver and gold coins, which were passed 
down through the years. They realize the 
coins are valuable in the outside world and 
covet them. The tree people also value the 
jewelry of their ancestors, which also has 
been passed down, jewelry, like their 
homes, is a status symbol. Most of the tree 
people are quick to trade with the other res 
idents in the vale, including the nearby 
mountain dwarves, for necklaces and brace 
lets. In exchange for the jewelry, the tree 
people often give large, treated lizard skins, 
which the gnomes make into cloaks and 
boots and the dwarves make into scab 
bards. 

The tree people use the skins to stretch 
over wooden drums. They are fond of mu 
sic and often play the drums accompanied 
by sweet-sounding ebonwood flutes. 


14 






the Qnomes 


About 1,200 gnomes inhabit the Valley of 
the Mage and swear their allegiance to the 
Exalted One* The vale gnomes are similar 
to gnomes elsewhere throughout Oerth, 
but there are subtle differences. Gnomes 
have lived in the valley for a few thousand 
years; only the valley elves have lived in the 
vale longer. Like gnomes elsewhere, they 
are friendly, adept at magic, and have be 
come linked with the land. However, during 
the past few centuries these gnomes have 
dealt little with humans, except for the tree 
people, and have come to think of humans in 
general as slow-witted and beneath them. 

Physical Appearance 

Like others of their race, these gnomes are 
short, but they are not as stout as those 
found in other places on Oerth* Their skin is 
a darker brown than that of other gnomes, 
because they stay above ground often so 
the sun has deepened their complexions. 
Their hair is white, and they do not let then- 
beards grow long, as these would become 
tangled in the foliage. While gnomes else 
where prefer to dress in earth tones, the 
gnomes of the vale opt to dress in shades of 
green, which makes it easier for them to 
blend into the background. Many of the vale 
gnomes wear silver and platinum jewelry 
that was fashioned by the mountain 
dwarves. 

Vale gnomes speak their own language, 
valley elf, the crude tree people dialect, 
dwarfish, and korred. In addition, many of 
them also can communicate with burrowing 
mammals by hand signs and animal sounds. 
A few even have been able to pick up rudi 
ments of the apes f language through watch 
ing the tree people communicate with the 
apes. 

The statistics for an average vale gnome 
are as follows: AC 7 (Dex bonus); MV 6; 
HD 1; #AT 1; Dmg Ld6 (short sword or 
staff); SD 50% chance to hide in shadows if 
outdoors; MR save as four levels higher vs. 
magic and poisons, immune to the poisons 
from plants within the vale; S small; Morale 
steady (12). 

Fighters who wear leather or studded 
leather armor and cany shields usually have 
an AC of 4 or 5, 


The average life span of a gnome is about 
600 years. However gnomes from the W- 
ley of the Mage have been known to live to 
800 or more. 

Combat 

Most vale gnomes abhor combat, prefer 
ring to devote their physical skills to hunt 
ing, fishing, and farming. However, they 
realize the importance of defense, which is 
forever a concern of the Exalted One, so 
select members of each community are 
trained as fighters by the tree people and 
the valley elves. 

Because the gnomes are so attuned to 
their environment and are so small, their 
combat tactics include circling around a tar 
get, using the trees and bushes for cover, 
beginning with a spell assault if there are 
spellcasters in the group, and then closing 
for melee. The gnomes prefer not to use 
missile weapons. The gnomes' special de 
fense is their ability to hide in the foliage, 

Wizards and Priests 

About 50% of the gnomes in the vale have 1 
Hit Die and are considered 0 level; 15% of 
the gnomes are fighters of 1st through 3rd 
level; 30% are wizards, primarily of 1st 
through 5th level (although a few are as high 
as 12th level): the remaining 5% are clerics 
and thieves of 1st through 3rd level. Nearly 
all of the gnome wizards are specialists, 
concentrating in the school of illusion. 

The gnomes in the vale greatly revere 
the Exalted One because of his great con 
trol over magic. Many of them refer to him 
as the Great Teacher and try to emulate 
him, acting as they have seen him do and 
using change self spells to alter their own 
appearances. 

The vale gnomes believe in constantly 
practicing magic. They work at it daily, 
sometimes weaving their phantasmal forces 
into the shapes of hideous monsters and im 
possible terrain features. Often these spells 
are directed with harmless intent at the val 
ley elves and the tree people, who have 
learned to tolerate the gnomes' pranks, 
The gnomes tend to harass the tree people 
more, fabricating monkeys that talk to the 


tree people with ventriloquism spells. 

The gnomes worship EhJonna, and their 
clerics have major access to the spheres of 
Ail, Animal, Creation, Healing, and Plant. 

Society and 
Government 

The majority of the gnomes live in two large 
burrow-villages near the center of the vale: 
Wbodsdeep and Moss burg. Waodsdeep is 
the largest, home to nearly 500 of the 
gnomes, Mossburg boasts a population of 
about 300. The remainder of the gnomes 
are scattered in eight smaller burrow vil 
lages that have populations ranging from 30 
to 70 gnomes. Those villages are called 
Fern walk, Petalrich, Earth wood, 

Roothome, Rockpath, Badgertown, Bur- 
rowville, and Barkburg. 

Each community is governed by a council 
of three gnomes, who are elected by the 
residents* In addition, there is an overall 
leader who presides over the affairs be 
tween communities and settles disputes 
among council members. The current chief 
is Endobie Mistikmore, who lives in Woods- 
deep. The chieftainship is passed down 
through the Mistikmore family, which was 
the founding family of Wbodsdeep. When 
crimes are committed in a community, the 
respective council decides punishment. En 
dobie is consulted for the more serious 
crimes* 

Each gnome community has vegetable 
gardens, with sentries who serve the dou 
ble purpose of ridding the gardens of hungry 
animals and protecting the villages from 
trespassers* In addition, giant badgers wan 
der freely through the villages and are 
sometimes attached to plows to help work 
the gardens* 

Ecology 

The vale gnomes eat a diet of fish, fowl, and 
a variety of vegetables* which they grow. 
They are especially fond of mushrooms and 
grow several different kinds. 


15 













GnteRinq the Vale 


The entrance to the Valley of the Mage is 
heavily guarded by traps, patrols, and a 
main guard tower Since it is impossible to 
cover every spot of ground across the en 
trance, it is possible for strangers to enter 
the valley undetected, despite the mage's 
precautions* There are further patrols and 
defenses inside, which are primed against 
intruders. When player characters enter 
the valley, have them indicate on their map 
where they are entering; consult your map, 
which lists guard posts and traps, to deter- 
mine if the PCs spot or are spotted by sen 
tries or patrols. 

The Entrance 

The entrance to the Valley of the Mage is to 
the west of the Dim Forest. The opening is 
carpeted in knee-high grass, except for 
along the banks of the Javan River, which 
are muddy and have little plant life. A few 
miles beyond the opening the forest begins* 
If the player characters choose to take 
this way into the Valley of the Mage, read 
the following: 


The Barrier Peaks nearly ring the Valley 
of tiie Mage, their impossibly lofty crags 
and cliffs serving as an inhospitable 
fence. But here, for an area about 20 
miles across, the imposing peaks stop 
and give way to thick* knee-high grass 
that barely moves in the slight breeze. 

The mighty Javan River, the longest 
river on the continent, comes through 
the valley at this point: its headwaters 
are in the Barrier Peaks. The grass 
comes to within ten feet of either side of 
the river and then stops. The banks of 
the river are muddy, and the river moves 
swiftly between them. 

The odor of jasmine, as soft and sweet 
as a high-born lady's perfume, wafts 
through the entrance of the vale and 
teases your nostrils. Beyond the open 
ing you see a lush, thick forest* Bright, 
flower-draped vines cling to the highest 
trees, the colors of the blossoms con 
testing with the hues of the multi 
colored birds for your attention. 


There are two pit traps in each mile 
across the valley's mouth, for a total of 
40 traps. The sentries, the First Protec* 
tor, and the Exalted One know that the 
traps will not catch all the intruders* but 
they are optimistic that the patrols in 
side, along with the predatory crea 
tures, will take care of those who slip 
through the entrance. The patrols know 
the locations of all the pit traps. 


Pit Traps 

The pit traps are simple constructions, each 
20 feet square and 15 feet deep* At the bot 
tom of the traps are wooden spikes. 

Over the top of each trap is a lattice of 
thin pieces of wood. Sod and grass are 
placed on top of the latticework so the land 
scape does not look unusual Any pressure 
of greater than 30 pounds will break the lat 
tice. sending the mtruder(s) into the pit. 

Those falling into a pit suffer ld8 points of 
damage from the fall Roll a second d8 to de 
termine how many spikes each character 
fell on. Each spike inflicts ld6 points of dam 
age. 

Each character entering the valley 
through the opening should role ld20. On a 
roll of 1, the character has fallen into one of 
the pits. 

Getting out of a pit also can be dangerous 
because of all the spikes. Characters in a pit 
should roll a Dexterity check on ld20; a 
failed roll means they have fallen and been 
stabbed fay an additional ld3 spikes on their 
way out. 

Dangerous Plants 

Crossing into the Valley of the Mage near 
the Javan River is a very dangerous propo 
sition because of a large blood thorn that 
grows near one bank, and a quartet of retch 
plants that grow near the other* The resi 
dents of the valley are well aware of the 
plants, and easily avoid them. 

Bloodthom: AC 4 (tendriis)/3 (trunk); 
MV Nil; HD 17 (plus special); hp 86; #AT 8; 
Dmg special; AL N; S L; THACO 17 (at 
tacks as a 4-HD monster) 


Unlike most of its kind, which grow near 
horn wood trees, this bloodthom took root 
amid the thick grasses and is perfectly con 
tent feeding oft the animals that wander by 
and the hapless adventurers who enter the 
vale near the river. 

This smooth, yellow plant has eight tend 
rils, each of which can lash out six feet* 
Each tendril has hollow thorns, and a suc 
cessful hit causes a fluid drain equal to l k of 
the victim's total initial hit points* It takes 8 
points of damage to sever one of the tend 
rils, and this damage does not effect the 
main plant. 

Retch Plants (4): AC 8; MV Nil; HD 7; hp 
48, 40, 35* 29; 0AT Nil; Dmg Nil; AL N; S 
L; THACO 13 

These palm trees each have ld4 + 4 
globe-like coconut-sized fruits growing at 
their tops. Each lilac globe is taut and mem 
branous. There is a 20% chance a globe falls 
if a creature w r alks beneath one of the trees. 
Solid contact with the trunk guarantees that 
ld4 + 1 globes fall. When a globe falls, it 
bursts, splashing a nauseating fluid in a five- 
foot radius* The foul liquid causes creatures 
splashed to retch for the next three rounds, 
and for the next hour they will be at half 
their normal Strengths. The odor persists 
for ld4 hours. 

Magical Traps 

Just inside the entrance are three areas, 
marked on the DM's defense map, that are 
intended to harm trespassers. Consult the 
PCs' path to determine if they spot any of 
the constructions. 

A, Abandoned Huts 


Four huts stand amid the tall grass* A 
few flowered vines grow up the sides of 
each hut. The huts look weathered and 
in disrepair, perhaps abandoned. 


PCs looking into the windows of the hut will 
see a small cot and a small table with one 
chair. The furniture looks old, and the place 
is dirty and devoid of signs of life. 

The door of each hut has a free trap spell 


16 












on it. as do all the windows. Each firetrap 
inflicts ld4 + 6 points of damage. In addi 
tion, each hut sits on top of a pit trap, as de 
scribed in the "Pit Traps" section earlier. 
The cot, table, and chair are distributed 
over the latticework of the pit so they do not 
produce enough weight to cave it in. 

There is nothing of value in the huts, 

B. Clever Coffers 


Vou approach a scene of disaster. Where 
once stood a few huts, now stand only 
charred parts of the homes. Judging 
from the grass and wild flowers that 
have grown up around them, you can tell 
that the huts were burned years ago. 


The huts were burned about two years ago 
to construct another trap. This time, the 
contents of the hut are the traps. There 
were three huts. Inside the remains of two 
of them are a half-dozen clay jars, or cof 
fers. Ash has been rubbed on the coffers to 
make it seem as if they were in the huts 
when they caught fire. To further make the 
scene convincing, the ash-covered bones of 
a human or large demihuman lies near the 
coffers. (The skeletons are the remains of 
trespassers who were killed in the pit 
traps,) Each of the six coffers in the two 
huts are trapped with a firetrap spell, which 
delivers ld4 + 6 points of damage. 

The third hut contains a charred chest, 
which is locked and trapped with a poison 
needle. Inside the chest are three books. 
Each book is trapped with a sepia snake sigfi 
spell on the first page of each book. When 
someone opens the book to this page, the 
spell takes effect, releasing a snake with a 
THACO of 18. Consult the Player's Hand 
book (page 152 in the AD&D 2nd Edition), 
for specifics on the spell. 

C. Wagon, Ho 


A worn, overturned wagon lies in the 
thick grass, small flowered vines are en 
twined in the broken spokes. The wagon 
is battered in places, as if it was struck 
with large, heavy objects. 


The wagon was left behind by low-level ad 
venturers braving the vale. The adventur 
ers were scared off by the entrance's 


sentries, and the First Protector decided to 
use the wagon as a trap. 

A glyph of warding spell has been cast on 
the wagon; jf a humanoid touches the 
wagon, the glyph will go off, delivering 6d4 
points of electrical damage to those within 
five feet of the wagon. Humanoids in the 
area must roll successful saving throws vs. 
spell or be paralyzed for ld8 rounds. 

Under the wagon is a wooden box with 
heavy leather strap tied around it to keep it 
dosed. This box is also trapped; it, too, has 
a glyph of warding spell cast on it, with the 
same effect as the one on the wagon. There 
is nothing of value under the wagon, 

Entrance Patrol 

The patrol moves back and forth across the 
entrance to the valley. To determine how 
many miles apart the patrol and the PCs are 
when the PCs start into the entrance, roll 
ld2G. The patrol is that many miles north of 
the party. Roll ld6 to determine which way 
the patrol is moving; it moves in this direc 
tion until it reaches an edge of the entrance 
(when the patrol reaches an edge, roll again 
for direction, ignoring results that place the 
patrol outside the entrance). The patrol 
moves one hex every hour (six turns). The 
patrol spots any intruders in its own hex and 
in any adjacent hex (unless the intruders are 
invisible or otherwise unnoticeable by ordi 
nary means). 

When the patrol spots intruders, it moves 
as quickly as possible to catch up to them, 
avoiding the pit traps, ivhile trying to re 
main unseen. The patrol's plan is to con 
front the intruders and demand that they 
state their business. If the PCs do not im 
mediately attack the patrol members, but 
talk with them, what the PCs say will deter 
mine the patrol's actions. 

For the purposes of this adventure, if the 
PCs are honest and mention the necroman 
cers, one of the patrol members will travel 
to the guard tower to bring a representative 
(such as one of those in charge of the tower) 
to meet with the PCs. The patrol spotted 
five people entering the valley four days 
ago, and they have not been able to locate 
them within the vale. If the PCs give die pa 
trol a description of the necromancers, the 
patrol members reveal that the intruders 
match the descriptions. 

When, and if, the PCs are determined not 


to be a threat to the Exalted One, they will 
be taken to the guard tower to discuss the 
matter of the necromancers. 

VaJlev Elves, 3rd-LeveJ Fighters (4): 
AC 4; MV 12; HD 3; hp 24, 21, 18,16; MT 
1; Dmg ld8 (long swords), ld8 (arrows); 
SA +1 to attack roll with swords and bows; 
MR 90% to charm and sleep only; AL CN; S 
M; THACO 18 

Gnome, 3rd-Level Illusionist: AC 8 
(Dex bonus); MV 6; HD 3; hp 10: ^AT 1; D 
ld4 (daggers); SA spells; SD spells; AL 
NG: THACO 20; Spells: 1st level-diarm 
person, phantasmal force f ventriloquism; 
2nd level -fog cloud, hypnotic pattern 

Gnomes, 2nd*Level Fighters (2): AC 
5; MV 6: HD 2; hp 15, 12; MT 1; Dmg ld6 
(spears and short swords); SA nil; SD nil; 
AL NG; THACO 19 

Cooshees (3); AC 5; MV 15, sprint 21; 
HD 3 +3; hp 25, 24, 20; MT 1; Dmg 7-10; 
SA overbearing; SD camouflage; AL N; 
THACO 17 

Carnivorous Ape (1): AC 6: MV 12; HD 
5; hp 34; MT 3; Dmg Id4/ld4/ld8; SA 
Rending; SD Nil; AL N; THACO 15 














Valley defenses 


Jason Krimeah, tlxe Exalted One, is ob 
sessed with defense. He wants to make 
certain that trespassers stay out of his do 
main, as he fears that any trespassers- 
unless the First Protector can prove 
otherwise-are agents of the Great King 
dom and mean to do him harm. His obses 
sion with defense and Great Kingdom 
agents is abnormal and excessive, but the 
people in the vale comply with his wishes, 
fulfilling his every request for traps and pa 
trols. 

The vale's defenses consist of patrols of 
valley elves, gnomes, tree people, and 
creatures. The patrols travel throughout 
the vale, reporting in at the vale's villages 
for rested replacements. The patrols oper 
ate in a spiral pattern, starting roughly in 
the center of the valley and circling out 
ward. Krimeah believes this is the best way 
to cover the vale. In addition, along the 
boundaries where the valley meets the Bar 
rier Peaks, there are further defenses, in 
cluding magical traps and guard posts. The 
entrance to the valley is especially fortified. 

There is a guard post about every 20 
miles along the valley s border, for a total of 
27, Each post is near the foothills of the 
Barrier Peaks, In addition* there is a pit 
trap, such as those detailed in the previous 
section* every 20 miles, each spaced half 
way between two guard posts. 

Guard Posts 

Each of the 27 guard posts, excluding the 
main post near the valley's entrance, is an 
elaborate wooden structure of one to three 
levels built in a large tree; the larger the 
tree* the more levels the guard post has. 
The First Protector came up with the idea 
for these guard posts, which she believes 
are difficult to notice because of the foliage. 
They are manned at all times by valley 
elves, gnomes* and tree people. In addi 
tion, every other guard post has animals, 
under charm mammal spells, that also serve 
as deterrents to intruders, 

A typical guard post crew works four-day 
shifts, 12 hours a day, and is relieved by a 
crew with equal abilities. The guard post 
crews are rarely also given patrol duty. 
Each crew has been trained by the First 


Protector to spot the brush moving when 
there is no wind, to notice rocks sliding 
down the mountain when there is nothing 
apparent to make them move, and to listen 
for the clanking of armor when no one is in 
sight. This training has helped rout several 
adventurers who tried to enter the valley 
invisibly. Further, about every third guard 
post is equipped with a pair of eyes of the 
eagle , supplied by the Exalted One, 

When intruders are caught, they are held 
at the guard post while one of the guards 
leaves to find a patrol or to gather a force 
from the nearest village. 

If a guard post cannot hold the intruders, 
which has happened on only one occasion* 
the patrols are immediately notified. The 
patrols are doubled, and the village resi 
dents and the First Protector begin comb 
ing the vale. When a small adventuring 
party escaped from a guard force several 
years ago and caused the patrols to be in 
creased, they eventually were caught near 
the Exalted One's citadel and were 
dispatched-after they killed many valley 
elves and gnomes. This is one of the events 
that caused the Exalted One to abandon the 
citadel and seek another fortification. 

Each guard post has a platform that cir 
cles it; guards are posted on the platform 
while they are on duty scanning the area. A 
typical guard post consists of the following 
areas (refer to guard post diagram}: 

1* Sleeping Quarters: Each guard post 
has ten humans and demihumans stationed 
there. There are only five cots in this room 
because at least half of the guard post resi 
dents are on duty at any time. There are 
two wooden footlockers at the end of each 
bed; these hold the personal possessions of 
the guard crew. Personal possessions usu 
ally consist of a few changes of clothes, 
writing materials, a book, and weapons 
(when the guard is not on duty). There is a 
50% chance that each footlocker also con 
tains a potion of healing. 

The sleeping room is sparsely furnished. 
The cots are simple but comfortable. An oil 
lamp hangs from each wall. There is a small 
table and four chairs in the center of the 
sleeping room. 


2. Common Room: This room is usually 
as large as the sleeping quarters. A typical 
common room contains three tables, each 
with three chairs, a bookshelf filled with 
books on a variety of subjects* and a smaller 
shelf filled with dice, darts, and other games 
to keep the guards occupied during their off 
hours. Nearly all of the common moms also 
have a large wooden chest filled with can 
vas, paint, and brushes. The Exalted One 
encourages the guards to enrich their lives 
by reading and through art. Because of this, 
the guard post common rooms have paint 
ings of nature scenes on the walls. All of the 
paintings were done by the guard post 
crews, 

3. Kitchen; This is usually the smallest 
room at the post. It is furnished with one ta 
ble and five chairs. A pot made of thin metal 
hangs from the ceiling next to cupboards 
filled with metal dishes, cups, silverware, 
water jugs, and cooking oil* There are three 
large wooden chests in each kitchen. One 
contains torches, a second is filled with veg 
etables, fruits, and grain, and the third con 
tains dried or preserved meat. Because the 
First Protector did not want to chance the 
guard posts catching on fire because of 
cooking or being spotted by intruders be 
cause of cooking fires, she instructed the 
guards in a new* way of preparing food. The 
food and a little cooking oil is placed in the 
metal pot, and then a torch is run along the 
bottom of the pot until the food is cooked. 

4. Holding Cell: The majority of these 
rooms never have been used. They are in 
tended to hold trespassers who are caught 
by the guard post crew. Each cell is rein 
forced with metal bars and is furnished with 
straw, a water basin, and leg irons* 

5* Weapons Room: This small room is 
used to store weapons, primarily long bows 
and arrows. 

6. Lookout; This room, usually a sepa 
rate structure toward the top of the tree, is 
manned by one guard. If a guard post lias 
eyes of the eagle, this guard has them. The 
lookout is intended to give the guards a 
higher vantage point for scanning the area. 


18 






Guard Post Crews 

Use these statistics for a guard post crew: 

Valiev Elves, Ist-Levei Fighters <4): 
AC 4; MV 12; HD 1 +2; hp 7 each; #AT 1; 
Dmg ld8 (long sword), IdS (long bow); SA 
+ 1 to attack roll with swords and bows; 
MR 90% to charm and sleep only; AL CN; 
THACO 20 

Gnome Wizard, 3rd*Level Illusionist: 

AC 8 (Dex bonus); MV 6; HD 3; hp 10; #AT 
1; Dmg ld4 (dagger); SA speUs; SD spells; 
AL NG; THACO 20; SpeUs: 1st level- 
phantasmal force , spook, ventriloquism; 
2nd level -blindness, hypnotic pattern 

Gnomes* lst-Level Fighters (2): AC 5; 
MV 6; HD 1; hp 7 each; #AT 1; Dmg ld6 
{spear or short sword); SA nil; SD nil; AL 
NG: THACO 20 

Tree People, 2nd-Level Fighters (3): 
AC 7; MV 12 on ground or in trees; HD 2; 
hp 18, 13, 12; #AT 1 (long sword), 2 (short 
bow); Dmg ld8 (longsword); ld6 (arrows); 
SA nil; SD 50% concealment in the trees, -2 
to AC; THACO 19 

AU guards firing from the trees are consid 
ered to have 50% concealment, improving 
their Armor Class by -2. 

Thirteen of the 27 guard posts also have 
creatures under charm mammal spells. To 
determine which creatures are at a particu 
lar guard post, roll ld6 and consult the list 
below. The cooshees are the only animals 
not under charm mammal speUs; they re 
main at the guard posts under their own vo 
lition. 

1- Cooshees (3): AC 5; MV 15, sprint 21; 
HI) 3 +3; hp 30, 24,17; #AT 1; D 7-10; SA 
overbearing; SD camouflage; AL N; 
THACO 17 

2. Giant Boars (2J: AC 6; MV 12; HD 7; 
hp 38,35; MT1; Dmg3d6; AL Nil; THACO 
13 

3. Leopards (2): AC 6; MV 15; HD 3 +2; 
hp 20, 17; #AT 3; Dmg Id3/ld3/ld6; SA 
Rear daws cause 4 points damage each; SD 
+ 2 bonus to their surprise roils; AL N; 
THACO 17 


4. Tigers (2): AC 6; MV 12; HD 5+ 5; hp 
34, 30; tfAT 3; Dmg Id4 + l/ld4 + l/ 
ld4 + 1/ldlO; SA Rear daws cause 8 points 
damage each; SD +2 bonus to their sur 
prise roll; AL N; THACO 15 

5. Giant Owls (3): AC 6; MV 3, FI 18(E); 
HD4; hp 25,22, 20 t 16; #AT 3; D 2d4/2d4/ 
ld4 41; SA Surprise: SD Nil; AL L; 
THACO 17 

6. Carnivorous Apes (2): AC 6; MV 12; 
HD 5; hp 29, 25; tfAT 3; Dmg I d4/ld4/ld8; 
SA Rending; SD Nil; AL N; THACO 17 

The guards at the post do not control the 
animals, as they are not the ones who put 
the animals under the charm mammal 
spells. However, the animals have been in 
structed by the clerics who charmed them 
not to harm 'Triends"-tree people, 
gnomes, valley elves, or the First Protec 
tor. They are instructed to attack any crea 
tures or people who try to harm the friends. 
The valley elf clerics who charmed the ani 
mals make regular trips to the guard posts 
to check on them, often staying for a few 
days. 

Main Guard Post 

The main guard post is located near the en 
trance to the Valley of the Mage. It is a 
sturdy, five-level wooden tower where val 
ley elves and gnomes are stationed. The 
exterior of the structure is treated with a 
rubbery sap culled from the idani trees in 
the vale. The sap. which smells musky, acts 
as a flame retardant, making the tower vir 
tually immune to normal fire (though magi 
cal fire will cause it to bum). There are no 
visible entrances to the tower; the en 
trances are two secret doors on the first 
level. Further, there is a hatch in the roof 
for flying speUeasters. The windows are 
barred to prevent intruders from getting in 
side. 

A platform along the outside of the sec 
ond and fourth levels is used by sentries 
scanning the area. One sentry on each plat 
form is equipped with eyes of the eagle. 

The tower closely resembles the main 
guardhouse in the Great Kingdom, but it is 
not as large. 


Level One 

This level contains one large room dubbed 
"the ready room" by the tower's occu 
pants. Shields and spears line three of the 
walls; the fourth is taken up by armor. The 
sentries who patrol along the platforms are 
assembled here each day, suited up. and 
briefed on any news that is occurring in the 
valley. Valley elves and gnomes who are as 
signed to patrols in the vicinity of the valley 
entrance also are assembled here. 

Level Two 

X- Gnome Sleeping Quarters. This 
room has small beds, tables, and chairs; it 
was furnished specifically for the comfort of 
the gnomes, There are eight beds with 
feather-filled mattresses, tw r o tables with 
four chairs at each, and a low shelf filled with 
books and games. In addition, there is a 
footlocker at the end of each bed that holds 
the personal possessions of each gnome; 
this usually includes several changes of 
clothes, weapons, a backpack, ld3 flasks of 
wine, parchment, quills, and ink, and ld20 
silver pieces. Most of the gnomes have 
more wealth than that, but they prefer to 
keep it hidden elsewhere in the room, such 
as in a post of their cot. The wealth they 
carry with them is usually 3d 10 gold pieces. 

The room has two windows, both barred. 
The room is illuminated by oil lamps; when 
the lamps are lit, the gnomes pull heavy 
black shades across the window to prevent 
the light from being seen from outside. 

One to four gnomes are usually found in 
this room at any given time. 

2. Valley Elf Sleeping Quarters. This 
room is furnished simply, is about twice as 
large as the other sleeping quarters, and 
contains full-size cots, tables, and chairs. 
There are 12 cots, each with a footlocker at 
the end, In addition, there are three tables 
with four chairs at each, two large shelves 
filled with books and games, and a large 
wooden chest that contains parchment, 
canvas, ink, and paint. The footlockers con 
tain the valley elves* possess ions-changes 
of clothes, flasks of wine, books, weapons, 
and various other personal items. Each val 
ley elf has ld20 silver pieces and 3d 10 gold 
pieces in his chest. Unlike the gnomes, they 
do not hide their wealth. 


19 










The room also has two barred windows 
and is illuminated by oil lamps. Several 
paintings hang on the wail, including two of 
the First Protector* The paintings were 
made by the sentries, 

One to six valley elves can be found here 
at any time* 

3, Guest Sleeping Quarters* This room 
is furnished more elegantly than the others, 
with green and yellow quilts on the beds, a 
yellow linen doth on the table, and a deep 
green and gray woven rug on the floor* 
There are four beds here, each with 
feather-filled mattresses and each with a 
nightstand containing an oil lamp and a wash 
basin* A large closet is for storing personal 
effects. 

The room houses guests, such as elders 
from one of the gnome or valley elf villages 
who have come to visit with the sentries or 
the First Protector, or houses visiting fam 
ily members of the sentries* Visitors usually 
do not stay more than three or four days. 

4* Washroom, The First Protector be 
lieves cleanliness is important, and in 
structs all her troops to keep themselves 
and their clothes dean to present a good im 
age, Half of this room contains shallow ba 
sins that are used for washing clothes. Thin 
ropes are strung across the ceiling to hang 
clothes to dry* The other half of the room 
contains four ceramic bathtubs, three of 
which are human sized and a smaller one for 
the gnomes* Water is carried in here daily 
from a natural spring behind the guard 
house. Two large shelves hold towels and 
soap. 

There are usually one to four valley elves 
and gnomes in here. 

Level Three 

1, Valley Elf Sleeping Quarters* This 
room is nearly identical to the room on the 
level below, except there are eight cots in 
stead of 12* The 3nHeveI fighters sleep in 
this room. 

One to four valley elves are here at any 
given time* 

2* Gnome Wizard Quarters. This room 
is decorated in garish oranges and greens. 
The four small beds are each covered with a 
patchwork quilt of orange and green, and at 


the foot of each bed is a foottocker painted 
bright yellow* There is a small writing desk 
by each bed. The desks contain parchment, 
ink. quills, sealing wax* oil, candles, and 
other items* An oil lamp sits on each desk* 
The footlockers, which are locked, contain 
personal items such as clothes, spell books, 
spell components, and 3dl0 gold pieces. 

3* Valley Elf Cleric Quarters* Four val 
ley elf clerics are always stationed at the 
tower, half of whom are usually in this room 
studying or praying. 

The room is spartan, furnished with sim 
ple cots and a plain wooden table and chairs. 
The only decorations are three paintings of 
nature scenes, which the sentries made at 
the clerics' request. A footlocker at the end 
of each cot contains the clerics' personal 
items, such as extra clothes, prayer beads, 
a vial of holy water, and incense* In addition, 
each cleric has three potions of healing and 
one potion of sweet wa ter* 

4* Washroom* This room is identical to 
the room on the lower level* 

Level Four 

1* Common Room. Woven mgs cover 
most of the floor* A large bookcase, filled 
with books on a variety of topics including, 
nature, war, histories of the surrounding 
countries, religion, and poetry, dominates 
the room. Several large, padded chairs sit 
up against the walls. A few large over 
stuffed pillows lie on the floor. The room is 
decorated in soft blues and beiges. The 
paintings on the walls, also made by the 
sentries, are serene, depicting animals by a 
waterfall, white-plumed birds in flight, and 
moths dancing in the moonlight. 

Many of the gnomes and valley elves not 
on duty spend time relaxing in this room . 

2. Kitchen and Dining Room. Four ta 
bles, each with four chairs, are spaced 
evenly in the center of the room. A fifth, 
larger table, with a half-dozen chairs around 
it and covered by a linen doth is at the far 
end of the room* 

About one third of the room is taken up 
with cupboards containing dishes, glasses, 
mugs, and silverware. Other cabinets con 
tain fruit, vegetables, bread, spices* flour, 
and dried and preserved meat. The food is 


cooked in thin metal pans that hang from the 
ceiling. The food, along with a little cooking 
oil, is placed in the pans, and a torch is 
moved against the bottom of the pans until 
the food is cooked. This method of cooking 
keeps the risk of fire down. 

This room has no windows. It is lit by a 
contmuallight spell cast on a rock hung from 
the ceiling. 

3* Practice Room. A permanent si/ence 
spell has been placed on this room* Sentries 
practice their fighting skills here, usually in 
structed by one of the higher level fighters 
on the premises. There are no windows in 
the room, and the walls and floor are cov 
ered with padding. Without the silence 
spell, the First Protector fears the noise 
from their practice sessions could alert in 
truders* 

The room also is used by the clerics when 
they wish to meditate in complete silence, 

4. Storage Room. Long bows, arrows, 
long swords, daggers, and spears are 
stored here for use by the sentries. How 
ever. most of the sentries prefer to use 
their own weapons, which they feel most 
comfortable with. In addition, practice 
weapons, such as wooden swords wrapped 
in doth, ropes, backpacks, empty flasks, 
bedrolls, and flint and steel are kept here. 

Level Five 

This level houses the quarters of the First 
Protector, and consists of her bedroom, 
washroom, kitchen, and parlor. The rooms 
are furnished relatively simply in somber 
colors. There are no decorations on the 
walls, and the only light source is a thick 
candle in each room. 

A large chest locked and trapped with a 
poison needle holds the First Protector's 
belongings. They include several changes 
of clothes, spell components, traveling spell 
books, 30 silver pieces, 40 gold pieces, and 
a dozen pearls, each worth 100 gp. 

The First Protector considers these 
quarters temporary living space, as she 
spends as much time as possible with the 
Exalted One and keeps her valuable belong 
ings with him in his fortress. 

The First Protector allows few people in 
here, mainly the leaders of the gnome and 
valley elf villages when they visit. 


20 








The stairway outside of her chambers 
leads up to the roof. 

Basement 

A hollowed out space, roughly 30 feet 
square and 15 feet deep, is used to hold 
prisoners, 

Tower Occupants 

The tower sentries include 12 1st- and 2nd- 
levet valley elf fighters, eight 2nd-level 
gnome fighters, eight 3rd-leve! valley elf 
fighters, four IsHevel gnome illusionists, 
and four valley elf clerics (two are 6th level, 
two are 2nd). The sentries are divided into 
two groups, each of which works a 12-hour 
shift. However, when an alarm is sounded, 
all of the off-duty shift is also required to 
help. Each sentry works at the tower for 
one month, returns to his village for a 
month, and then comes back to duty at the 
tower. The only exception are the two 6th- 
level valley elf clerics. They are considered 
in charge of the tower and have made it 
their permanent home. It is considered an 
appointment of prestige to be chosen for 
tower duty. 

There is a 40% chance the First Protec 
tor is at the tower working with the sen 
tries. If the First Protector is not present, 
there is a 40% chance the gnome or valley 
elf leader is here. 

Two elephants are also considered part of 
the tower forces. These elephants are un 
der animal friendship spells from the 6th- 
level valley elf clerics. They have been 
taught to defend the tower, protect the 
tower inhabitants (which includes fighting 
attackers), and carry water to the tower 
from the spring. 

Valley Elf Fighters, 1st Level (6): 
AC 5; MV 12; HD l +2; hp 7 each; MT 1: 
Dmg ld8 (long sword), ld8 (long bow); SA 
+ 1 to attack roll with swords and bows; 
MR 90% vs. charm and sleep only; AL CN; 
THACO 20 

Valley Elf Fighters, 2nd Level (6): 

AC 4; MV 12; HD 2; hp 12 each; MT 1; 
Dmg IdS (long sword), ld8 (long bow); SA 
+1 to attack roll with swords and bows; 
MR 90% vs. charm and sleep only; AL CN; 
THACO19 

Valley Elf Fighters, 3rd Level (8); 
AC 4; MV 12; HD 3; hp 20 each; MT 1; 


Dmg ldB (long sword), ld8 (long bow); SA 
+ 1 to attack roll with swords and bows; 
MR 90% vs. charm and sleep only; AL CN; 
THACO 18 

Valley Elf Clerics, 6th Level (2); AC 
4; MV 12; HD 6; hp 31, 29; MT 1; Dmg 
ld6 + i (mace): SA spells: SD spells; MR 
90% vs. charm and sleep only; AL CN; 
THACO 18 

Cleric #1, Spells; 1st level- cure light 
wounds x3, entangle, bless ; 2nd level- 
slow poison, charm person or mammal x2, 
warp wood ; 3rd level-snare, spike growth 

Cleric #2, Spells: 1st level- bless, cure 
light wounds x3, entangle; 2nd level- 
messenger, speak with animals, trip, warp 
wood ; 3rd level-summon insects, prayer 

Valley Elf Clerics, 2nd Level (2): AC 
4; MV 12; HD 2; hp 12, 10; MT 1; Dmg 
ld6 + l (mace); SA spells; SD spells; MR 
90% vs. charm and sleep only; AL CN; 
THACO 20 

Cleric #3* Spells; 1st level-defect evil, 
entangle 

Cleric #4, Spells: 1st level- cure light 
wounds x3 

Gnome Illusionists, 1st Level (4): 
AC 7 (Dex bonus); MV 6; HD 1; hp 3 each; 
MT 1; Dmg ld4 (dagger); SA spells; SD 
spells: AL NG; THACO 20; Spells; 1st 
level- phantasmal force , audible glamer 

Gnome Fighters, 2nd Level (8): AC 
5; MV 6; HD 2; hp II each; MT 1; Dmg 16 
(spear or short sword); SA nil: SD nil; AL 
NG; THACO 19 

Elephants (2): AC 6; MV 15; HD 11; 
#AT 5; Dmg 2d8/2d8/2d6/2d6/2d6; SA nil: 
SD nil; ALN; THACO 10 

Placements 

There are 18 valley elves and gnomes on 
duty at any one time. Five fighters and 
speilcasters are stationed on each platform 
around the tower, and three fighters are 
placed on the roof. The remaining five sen 
tries, usually three fighters, a gnome illu 
sionist, and a 2nd-level valley elf cleric 
patrol the area around the tower and near 
the entrance. 

Fighting from the Tower 

If it is obvious the intruders have no in 
tention of surrendering, the sentries attack 
to kill, the clerics after the fight curing in 
truders not fatally hurt, and putting them in 
the basement for later questioning. 


Battle tactics are to fight from the plat 
form by firing arrows and by using the tow 
er's special weapons, which are detailed 
below. 

The gnome illusionists will first use their 
phantasmal force spells to create hideous 
creatures to frighten the intruders and ruin 
their morale. The clerics first tactics are to 
cast entangle spells, giving the archers sta 
tionary targets, and then following up with 
other spells. 

Special Weapons 

Along the top of the tower are large rocks 
placed on angled pieces of wood. Moving a 
release on each piece of wood sends the 
rock hurtling downward at an angle, away 
from the platforms around the tower, onto 
intruders below. The rocks* because of 
their size, have THACOs of 11. 

There are four large ballistae evenly 
spaced along each platform. These are 
body-sized crossbows and are operated by 
extending the bow with the shooter's feet. 
A ballista can be fired once a round, causing 
2d6 points of damage. The ballistae use the 
THACO of their operator. 

Vale of the Mage 
Patrols 

Roll ldlG for every hour of game time the 
PCs spend in the Valley of the Mage. A1 or 
2 indicates they have been spotted by one of 
the following patrols. If the PCs are taking 
special precautions not to be noticed, a roll 
of a 1 indicates they were spotted anyway. 
The patrol is in addition to any wandering 
monsters the PCs encounter 

Roll ld!2 to determine which patrol from 
the following list is encountered. Each pa 
trol should be encountered only once; reroll 
any duplicate encounters, 

1. Valley Elves (12): AC 4; MV 12; HD 
1+1; hp 7 each: MT 1; Dmg ld8 (long 
sword). Id8 (long bow); SA +1 to attack 
roll with swords and bows; MR 90% vs. 
charm and sleep only; AL CN; THACO 19 

Because valley elves can blend in with 
their surroundings and move quietly 
through wooded areas, the PCs have only a 
10% chance to detect the presence of this 
valley elf patrol before it comes upon them. 
This chance can be modified by the DM, 

















I " -M- M | 

Quar6 toweR 

one square = 5 feet 

level One level fouR 



level thRee 























based on the PCs' precautions* 

This small group of valley elves from the 
Darkglade village patrol the vale for signs of 
intruders or unusual occurrences. They are 
a stealthy group, patrolling in a loose forma 
tion to avoid detection. Their orders are to 
report what they have seen and avoid con 
frontations , unless they are certain the of 
fending force can be easily dispatched or 
chased out of the vale. If the PCs attract the 
attention of this patrol, the elves will follow 
them for an hour in an attempt to gain infor 
mation, then return to the Darkglade, 
Vines trong, or Moonhollow villages or to 
one of the gnome communities. The com 
munity contacted will put together a force of 
40 or more residents to approach the PCs. 

2. Valley Elf Force: lst-Level Fighters 
(6): AC 4; MV 12; HD 1 + 2; hp 7 each; 0AT 
1; Dmg IdS (long sword), ld8 (long bow); 
SA + 1 to attack roll with swords and bows; 
MR 90% vs. charm and sleep only; AL CN; 
THACO 19 

4th-Level Fighters (3): AC 4; MV 12; HD 
4; hp 38 t 31 T 26 t 25; 0AT 1; Dmg ld8 + l 
(long sword and Str bonus) , 1 d8 (long bow); 
SA +1 to attack roll with swords and bows; 
MR 90% vs. charm and sleep only; AL CN; 
THACO 17 

6th-Level Fighters (3): AC 4; MV 12; HD 
6; hp 55, 52, 40; 0AT 1; Dmg ld8 +2 (long 
sword +1 and Str bonus), ldB (long bow); 
SA +1 to attack roil with swords and bows; 
MR 90% vs. charm and sleep only; AL CN; 
THACO 15 

3rd-Level Mages (3): AC 6; MV 12; HD 
3; hp 7 each; 0AT 1; Dmg ld4 +1 (dagger 
+ 1); MR 90% vs. charm and sleep only; 
AL CN; THACO 20 

Mage #1, Spells: 1st level-charm per 
son, chill touch] 2nd level- in visibility 

Mage 02, Spells: 1st level- charm per 
son , magic missile] 2nd level-stinking 
cloud 

Mage #3, Spells; 1st level- shield, taunt; 
2nd level-web 

Although this group is stealthy and is using 
the foliage for cover, the PCs have a 20% 
chance to notice them because of the patrols 
large size. This chance can be modified by the 
DM, based on the PCs* precautions. 

This patrol has been directed to defeat or 
rout all trespassers from the vale. Hqw t - 
ever, these valley elves also want to know 
about the trespassers and their intentions 
and report the information to the Black One 


or the First Protector Therefore, they are 
willing to talk to their quarry first to gain this 
information before ushering them, peace 
fully or otherwise, out of the vale. This 
group will listen to reason if the PCs make a 
case for their presence. If this happens, the 
patrol will take them to the nearest valley 
elf village. 

If there is a battle, and if it goes against 
the patrol, a few of the members attempt to 
escape to a nearby village of valley elves or 
gnomes and summon reinforcements of 40 
villagers, 

3, Valley Elf Fighters, 1st Level (25): 
AC 4; MV 12; HD 1 +1; hp 7 each; 0AT 1; 
D 1d8 (tongsword), id8 (longbow); SA +1 
to attack roll with swords and bows; MR 
90% vs. charm and sleep only; AL CN; 
THACO 19 

Cooshee (5); AC 5; MV 15, sprint 21; HD 
3 + 3; hp 30, 27, 20, 19, 15; 0AT 1; D 
ld4 + 6; SA overbearing; SD camouflage; 
AL N; THACO 17 

This group is stealthy and is using the foli 
age for cover. Because of the size of the 
group, the PCs have a 35% chance to notice 
it. This chance can be modified by the DM P 
based on the PCs' precautions. 

This group s purpose is to capture any in 
truders and bring them before Summer- 
storm in one of the valley elf villages. The 
group does not want to kill the intruders, as 
it wants to learn what the strangers are do 
ing in the vale. 

4, Cooshees (4): AC 5; MV 15, sprint 21; 
HD 3+3; hp 30, 25, 24, 17; 0AT 1; Dmg 
ld4 +6; SA overbearing; SD camouflage; 
ALN; THACO 17 

At the request of Summerstorm, these 
elven dogs patrol the valley to keep stran 
gers from harming the valley elves. The 
dogs return to one of the elven villages 
when strangers are spotted, In response, a 
group of about 40 valley elves are sent out 
to deal with the intruders. 

5, Gnome Illusionists, 3rd Level (4): 
AC 8 (Dex bonus); MV 6; HD 3; hp 12, 10, 
7; 0AT1; Dmg L4 (daggers); SA spells; SD 
spells; AL NG; THACO 20 

Illusionist 01, Spells: 1st level- 
phantasmal force, spook * ventriloquism ; 
2nd level- blindness, hypnotic pattern 

Illusionist 02, Spells: 1st level- 
phantasmal force x3; 2nd level- improved 
phantasmal force x2 


Illusionist 03, Spells: 1st level- audible 
gamer, change self, ventriloquism: 2nd 
level- foots J gold, invisibility 

Illusionist 04: 1st level-phantasma/ 
force x2, charm person ; 2nd level- 
in vis ibility, ray of enfeeblement In addition, 
this illusionist carries a wand of wonder with 
48 charges. 

This patrol seeks to confound strangers 
and drive them from the valley. However, 
while the gnomes realize their task is seri 
ous, they are not above having a little fun 
with it. The gnomes use their phantasmal 
force spells to create horrible-looking mon 
sters and ventriloquism spells to make it 
seem the invaders are nearly surrounded. 
The wand of wonder is called into play if the 
phantasmal force spells do not have the de 
sired effect* 

If the intruders seem too strong, the 
gnomes attempt to hook up with one or 
more of the valley elf patrols to defeat the 
intruders, or they return to a gnome village 
to gather a larger force. 

6. Gnome Force: lst-Level Fighters 
(24): AC 5; MV 6; HD 1; hp 7 each; 0AT I; 
Dmg ld6 (spear or short sword); SA nil; SD 
nil; AL NG; THACO 20 

2nd-Levei Thieves (5): AC 6; MV 6; HD 
2; hp 12,10, 9, 7, 6; 0AT 1; Dmgldfi (short 
sword); SA backstab for double damage 
(other thieving abilities not applicable); SD 
40% chance to hide in shadows; AL CN; 
THACO 20 

3rd-Levd Clerics (3): AC 5; MV 6; HD3; 
hp 19. 18, 16; 0AT 1; Dmg ld6 + l (mace); 
SA spells; SD spells; AL NG; THACO 20 

Cleric 01, Spells: 1st level- bless f purify 
food and drink # cure light wounds x2; 2nd 
level-enthrall, hold person , slow poison 

Cleric 02, Spells: 1st level- cure light 
wounds x3 r entangle; 2nd level-know 
alignment ; speak with animals, silence 15 f 
radius 

Cleric 03, Spells: 1st level- command, 
cure light wounds x2, defect magic; 2nd 
level-charm person or mammal, chant, ob- 
scurement 

The purpose of this patrol is to capture or 
drive out intruders. Captured strangers are 
taken before the gnome chief. If a force ap 
pears too strong for this patrol, the fighters 
scatter to join with other patrols or gnomes 
in the villages. When a larger patrol is de 
veloped, it returns to deal with the in 
truders. 


24 







7. Tree People, 2nd~Level Fighters 
(10): AC 7; MY 12 on ground or in trees; 
HD 2; hp 12 each; MT 1 (long sword), 2 
(short bow); Dmg ld8 (long sword); ld6 
(short bow); SA nil; SD 50% concealment in 
the trees; THACO 19 

This patrol usually moves through the 
trees to gain a better vantage point- They 
usually call out a warning to all strangers in 
an attempt to find out what the strangers 
are doing in the vale, and then they ask the 
intruders to leave. Those who do not leave 
are asked to surrender. Belligerent or 
threatening strangers are fired upon. Cap 
tives are taken before the chief. However, if 
the patrol is far from the tree village, the 
captives are taken to the nearest valley elf 
village. 

8* Combined Force; Tree People, 2nd- 
Level Fighters (12): AC 7; MV 12 on 
ground or in trees: HD 2; hp 12 each; MT 1 
(longsword), 2 (short bow); Dmg IdB (long 
sword); ld6 (short bow); SA nil; SD 50% 
concealment in the trees; THACO 19 

Valley Elves, 1st-Level Fighters (14): 
AC 4; MV 12; HD 1; hp 7 each; MT1; Dmg 
ld8 (longsword) ( IdB (longbow); SA +1 to 
attack roll with swords and bows: MR 90% 
vs. charm and sleep only; AL CN; THACO 
19 

Gnomes, 1st-Level Fighters (6): AC 5; 
MV 6; HD 1; hp 7 each; MT 1; Dmg IdG 
(spear or short sword); SA nil; SD nil; AL 
NG; THACO 20 

Gnomes, 2nd-Level Thieves (4): AC 6; 
MV 6; HD 2; hp 12, 10, 6; MT 1; Dmg ld6 
(short sword); SA backstab for double dam 
age (other thieving abilities not applicable); 
SD 40% chance to hide in shadows; AL CN; 
THACO 20 

The PCs have a 50% chance to detect 
this patrol approaching. The aim of this pa 
trol is to capture all intruders and bring 
them to the closest gnome or valley elf vil 
lage to determine why they are in the valley 
and what to do with them. 

9. Combined Force: Tree People, 4th~ 
Level Fighters (4): AC 7; MV 12 on ground 
of in trees; HD 4; hp 40, 35, 32, 28; #AT 1 
(long sword}, 2 (short bow); Dmg ld8 (long 
sword), ld6 (short bow); SA nil; SD 50% 
concealment in the trees; THACO 17 

Valley Elves, 4th-Level Fighters (6): AC 
4; MV 12; HD 4; hp34 f 32, 29, 26; MT 1; 
Dmg ld8 (long sword), ld8 (long bow); SA 


+ 1 to attack roil with swords and bows; 
MR 90% vs. charm and sleep only; AL CN; 
THACO 17 

Valley Elf, 8th-Level Enchanter: AC 3 
(Dex bonus, cloak +2, ring +2); MV 12; 
HD 8; hp23; MT1; Dmg ld4 {dagger}; SA 
spells; SD spells; MR 90% vs. charm and 
sleep only; AL CN; THACO 18 

Spells: 

1st level- color spray, grease, charm 
person, taunt, detect magic 

2nd level- darkness 15' radius , glitter- 
dusty ray of enfeebhinent, Tasha's uncon 
trollable hideous laughter 

3rd level- fly, haste, hold person , sug 
gestion 

4 th level-confusion, emotion , poly 
morph self 

Magical items: ring of protection +2 f 
cloak of protection +2, wand of frost (12 
charges) t dagger -h2 t dust of disappear 
ance (two uses) 

This group also is intent on capturing 
strangers, either by force or through sur 
render. In combat, the group's tactics in 
clude having the enchanter, who is hidden 
with his dust of disappearance, cast haste 
on the tree people, confusion on the stran 
gers, and then open up with the wand of 
frost and his other spells while the tree peo 
ple and valley elves attack with missile 
weapons and then close in melee. 

The patrol hopes to take any strangers 
alive to learn what they are doing in the vale 
and to gain information about the Great 
Kingdom and the rest of the outside world. 
The patrol eventually takes captured stran 
gers before Summers torm. 

10. Mountain Dwarves, Ist-Level 
Fighters (24) (only encountered along 
the base of the Barrier Peaks): AC 4; 
MV6; HD 1 +1; hp 7each; #AT 1; Dmg ld6 
(spear) or ld8 (battle axe); AL N; THACO 
20 

This group is in the employ of the Exalted 
One. It patrols along the base of the Barrier 
Peaks and takes captured intruders to the 
First Protector. 

11- Green Dragon, young adult: AC -1; 
MV 9, FI 30, Sw 9; HD 14; hp 81; MT 3 + 
special; Dmg ld8 +5/ld8 + 5/2dl0 + 5, 
breath weapon 10d6 + 5; SA spells, breath 
weapon, special; SD spells, special; MR 
15%; THACO 7; Spells: 1st level-grease, 
wall of fog 


The dragon is controlled by the Exalted 
One through potions of green dragon con 
trol, The mage directs the dragon to van 
quish intaiders who do not look like valley 
elves, gnomes, mountain dwarves, or tree 
people. The humans and demihumans know 
to give the dragon a wide berth. In combat it 
first casts grease and follows up with one or 
more breath weapons before dosing. It em 
ploys all of its physical attacks, including tall 
slap and wing buffet. The dragon is intelli 
gent and flies away if it believes it is in dan 
ger of being defeated. 

12. Iron Golem: AC 3; MV 6; HD 18; hp 
80; a NT 1; Dmg 4dl0; SA poisonous gas 
cloud; SD immune to weapons of less than 
+ 3 enchantment; AL N; THACO 3 
The golem was created by the Exalted 
One as an added patrol Like the dragon, it 
has.been ordered to vanquish parties not 
composed of valley elves, gnomes, moun 
tain dwarves, or tree people. 










as 


KMI 











GncounteRs in the Barricr peaks 


If the player characters attempt to enter the 
Valley of the Mage through the Barrier 
Peaks, roU ldlO. Gn a 1, 2, or 3, they have 
encountered a group of creatures living in 
the peaks: if the PCs are making a lot of 
noise, or are taking precautions to avoid be 
ing noticed, adjust the chance for an 
encounter. Roll ld4 to determine which of 
the following encounters to use. 

The dwarves and stone giants work to 
keep trespassers out of the valley, in cooper 
ation with the Exalted One. In turn, the Ex 
alted One keeps the gnomes in the vale from 
mining what the dwarves consider their 
property and prevents them from playing 
tricks on the giants. The galeb duhr protect 
the valley because of the grivelings that live 
in the peaks. They feel akin to the creatures 
and protect them-and the other valley 
inhabitants-from outsiders. The dwarves, 
galeb duhr, and giants prefer to chase in 


truders away rather than kill them. The 
minotaur lizards are just looking for a meal, 

1, Mountain Dwarves, 2nd-Level 
Fighters (8): AC 4; MV 6; HD 2; hp 15 
each; MT1: Dmg ld6 +1 (spear + Strbo 
nus): SA nifr SD nil; AL NG; THACO 19 

Mountain Dwarves, 3rd-Level Fighters 
(6): AC 4; MV 6: HD 3; hp22 each; MT 1; 
D ld6+2 (spear + Str bonus); SA nil; SD 
nil; AL NG: THACO 18 
Mountain Dwarves, 4th-Level Fighters 
(4): AC 4; MV 6: HD 4; hp 29 each; MT 1; 
D ld6 + 3 {spear +1 + Str bonus); SA nil; 
SD nil; AL NG; THACO 17 

2, Stone Giants (4): AC 0: MV 12; HD 
14 + ld3 bps; hp 84, 74, 70, 68; MT 1; D 
2d6 + 8; SA hurl rocks for 3dlG; SD blend in 
with surroundings; AL N; THACO 7 


3. Minotaur Lizards (4): AC 5; MV 6; 
HD 8; hp 58, 56, 45, 34; #AT 3; D 2d6/2d6/ 
3d6; SA adept at ambushes, others suffer -5 
penalty to surprise rolls. A natural attack 
roll of 20 means the creature has trapped its 
victim and automatically can inflict 3d6 each 
round until the victim escapes; SD nil; AL 
N; THACO 13 

4. Galeb Duhr (4): AC -2; MV 6; HD 8; 
hp 57, 48, 40, 36; MT 2; Dmg2d8; SA ani 
mate boulders, not harmed by lightning or 
normal fire, +4 bonus to saving throws vs. 
fire attacks, spells; SD spells, suffer double 
damage from cold-based attacks and save 
with -4 penalty against them; AL N; 
THACO 13 

Once per round the galeb duhr can cast, 
as a 20th-level mage, the following spells: 
move earth, stone shape, passwall, trans 
mute rock to mud , and wail of stone " 


AdventuRe ideas 


poR fimxbeR A&vemuRinci in xhe 
Vale 

L A powerful neutral wizard from a country 
that neighbors the \hlley of the Mage has 
been robbed, and he is certain the Mage of 
the Vale had something to do with it. The 
wizard is planning a magical assault on the 
valley, wanting to kill or injure some of the 
valley elves who live there in retribution. He 
plans to repeat his strikes until his magical 
items are returned. Officials in the country 
fear that such action will bring the wrath of 
the Exalted One and his minions down on the 
entire populace. They ask the player charac 
ters to journey inside the vale and try to talk 
the Exalted One into returning the items. 

The Exalted One will comply if the PCs 
treat him all right and make no threats. 
However, he first requires them to perform 
a task before he hands over the items: A 
young adult red dragon has made a home in 
the Barrier Peaks, and he wants it killed. 

2. Valley elves have increased their raids on 
merchant caravans that venture near the 
Valley of the Mage, Officials in neighboring 


countries want something done about it be 
fore trade routes have to be lengthened or 
prices on goods raised. 

The PCs are hired to escort several mer 
chant caravans in the area. 

The valley elves are raiding the caravans to 
acquire herbs, spices, and other ingredients 
for the Exalted One's research. Supplying the 
valley elves with rare herbs, spices, and unu 
sual plants could halt the raids. 

3. A merchant dealing in exotic animals 
wants to hire the PCs to take him into the 
Valley of the Mage. He has stood at the val 
ley's entrance and watched the beautiful 
tropical birds. He wants to catch some of 
them to sell to his wealthy customers. He 
offers the PCs a payment of 30 gp for each 
bird he catches. 

If the PCs accept his offer, they will have 
more than birds to deal with. They must 
protect the merchant, who has no adven 
turing skills. And they will have to deal with 
the jakar (see page 31), who does not want 
any of the valley 's creatures imprisoned. 

4. If the PCs become involved with the last 
adventure, shortly after their return they 


are contacted by another merchant, this 
one dealing in exotic plants. The merchant 
wants to gather idani fruit, rumored to grow 
only in the Valley of the Mage. 

In actuality, the man isn't a merchant at 
all. He is an evil cleric of Hextor who wants 
to gain access to gain access to the Valley of 
the Mage. The cleric hopes to kidnap the 
First Protector or another being important 
to the Exalted One. 

If the cleric is successful, the PCs are 
called upon to return the kidnap victim to 
the Exalted One. 

5. A pair of grivelings. wandering in the out 
side foothills of the Barrier Peaks, were 
captured by an animal trainer and are being 
shown as part of a wild animal act in a travel 
ing circus. 

PCs attending the circus, on whatever 
ruse the DM creates, are contacted by the 
grivelings who ask to be returned home. 
The grivelings are certain their brothers 
and others in the Valley of the Mage will 
come out to get them, which could spell 
doom for those in the circus. 










CReatuRe Statistics ChaRt 

Below is a list of creatures that can be found within the Valley of the Mage. 


Name 

NA 

AC 

MV 

HD 

MT 

DMG 

SA 

SD 

AL 

thaco 

Antelope 

2-24 

r 

24 

2 

1 

14 

Stampede 

Nit 

Nil 

16 

Ape 

2-12 

6 

12 

5 

3 

14/14/1-8 

Rending 

Mil 

N 

15 

Ape, gorilla 

1*4 

6 

12 

4 + 1 

3 

1-3/13/1-6 

Rending 

Nil 

N 

17 

Baboon 

10-40 

7 

12 

1+1 

1 

14 

Nil 

- 

N 

19 

Banderlog 

4-24 

6 

6/12 

4 

1 

2-5 

- 

Nil 

N 

19 

Basidirond 

1-2 

4 

6 

5 + 5 

1 

2-8 

Spores 

- 

N(E) 

15 

Bat, ^am 

3-18 

8 

3/18 

l 

mm 

14 

Nil 

- 

Nil 

19 

Bat, molyai 

l-fi 

7 

3/15 

6 

i 

2-8 

- 

- 

NE 

15 

Bear, black 

1-3 

7 

12 

3+3 

3 

1-3/1-3/145 

Hug 

Nil 

N 

17 

Boalisk 

1-3 

5 

12 

5 + 1 

2 

1-3/2-7 

Gaze 

N il 

N 

15 

Boar, giant 

2-8 

6 

12 

7 

1 

3-18 

Nil 

Nil 

nb 

13 

Boar, warthog 

1-6 

7 

12 

3 

2 

2-S/2-8 

Nil 

Nil 

N il 

17 

Cat, leopard 

1-2 

6 

15 

3+2 

3 

1-3/1-3 71-6 

- 

- 

>N 

!7 

Cat, tut. lion 

1-2 

6 

12 

3 + 1 

3 

1-3/1-3/1-6 

- 

- 

N 

17 

Cat, wild tiger 

1-4 

6 

12 

5 + 5 

3 

2-5/2-5/140 

- 

- 

N 

15 

Cal, smilodon 

1-2 

6 

12 

7+2 

3 

2-5/2-5/2-12 

- 

*- 

N 

11 

Cockatrice 

1-6 

6 

6/18 

5 

1 

1-3 

Petrify 

Nil 

N 

15 

Cooshee 

1-8 

5 

15/21 

3 + 3 

1 

740 

Overbear 

- 

N 

17 

Couatl 

1-4 

5 

6/18 

9 

2 

1-3/2-8 

Poison, spells 

LG 

11 


Criosphmx 

1-4 

0 

12/24 

10 

3 

2-8/2-8/3-18 

Nil 

Nil 

N 

11 

Dragonfish 

l 

4 

Sw6 

2 

l 

1-6 

Spines, poison 

- 

Nil 

19 

Dragonfly 

1-6 

3 

1/36 

7 

1 

3-12 

+2 init. 


N 

13 

Elephant 

1-12 

6 

15 

11 

5 

2-16/2-16/2-12/2-12/ 










242 

Nil 

Nil 

N 

10 

Elf, valley 

Var 

12 

Var 

Var 

Nil 

Nil 

CN 

Var 



Gnome 

Var 

6 

Var 

Var 

Nil 

- 

NG 

Var 



Grist 

2-8 

0 

9/12 

8+4 

4 

l-8(x3)/l-10 

Fear r + 1/hit 

H 

11 


Griveling 

2-24 

2 

9/12 

5+2 

2 

1-8/1-8 

Spe! Is 

Spells 

15 


Harpy 

2-12 

7 

6/15 

7 

3 

1-3/1-3/1-6 

Song 

Nil 

CE 

13 

Hippopotamus 

2-12 

6 

9/12 

8 

1 

242 or 348 

- 

Nil 

N 

13 

Hornet (wasp) 

1-20 

4 

6/21 

4 

2 

2-8/14 

Poison 

Nil 

N 

17 

Jackatwere 

M 

4 

12 

4 

1 

2-8 

Gaze 

+ l/h it 

CE 

17 

Jakar 

l 

Spec 

IS 

Spec 

Spec 

N 

3 




jaleeda bird 

1-4 

4 

15/24 

8 

3 

1-8/1-8/1-12 

Snatch 

- 

NE 

13 

Kech 

2-8 

4 

15 

5 

3 

2-5/2-5/1-6 

- 

- 

NE 

15 

Korred 

1-4 

5 

9 

6 + 1 

1 

3-6+4 

Hurl rocks 

Laugh 

CN 

15 

Lizard, fire. 

14 

3 

9 

10 

3 

1-8/1 8/2-16 

- 

- 

N 

11 

Giant 

2-12 

5 

15 

3 + 1 

1 

1-8 

- 

NQ 

N 

17 

Mantrap 

1-2 

6 

Nil 

4-9 

2-5 

Spec 

Nil 

N 

Var 


Naga, water 

14 

5 

9/18 

7-8 

1 

14 

- 

m 

N 

13 

Owl, giant 

2-5 

6 

3/18 

4 

3 

2-8/2-S/2-5 

Surprise 

Nil 

N 

17 

Owl, talking 

1 

3 

1/36 

2+2 

3 

1-4/14/1-2 

Swoop 

- 

LG 

19 

Pegasus 

MO 

6 

24/48 

4 

3 

1-8/1-8/1-3 

Rear kick 

M 

CG 

17 

Porcupine, giant 

1-2 

5 

6 

6 

1 

2-8 

Shoot quills 

N 

15 


Pseudodragon 

1 

2 

6/24 

2 

1 

1-3 + special 

Poison 

- 

NCG) 

19 

Rhinoceros 

1-6 

6 

12 

8-9 

1 

2-8/2-12 

Charge 

- 

N 

13 

Snake, constrictor 

1-2 

6 

9 

3 + 2 

2 

1/1-3 

Constriction 

- 

N 

17 

Snake, giant 

1-2 

5 

9 

6 + 1 

2 

14/2-8 

Constriction 

- 

N 

15 

Snake, poison 

1-6 

6 

15 

2 + 1 

1 

1 

Poison 

- 

N 

19 

Snake, poison, giant 

1-6 

5 

15 

4+2 

1 

1-3 

Poison 

- 

N 

15 

Snake, spitting 

14 

5 

12 

4+2 

2 

1-3 

Spit poison 

- 

N 

17 

Spider, huge 

1-12 

6 

is 

2+2 

l 

1-6 

- 

Nil 

N 

19 

Spider, giant 

1-8 

4 

3/12 

4 +4 

1 

1-8 

- 

Nil 

CE 

17 

Squealer 

24 

6 

12/9 

12 

3 

742/1-3/1-3 

- 

Camouflage 

N 

9 

Wolf 

2-20 

7 

18 

2+2 

1 

2-5 

m 

Nil 

N 

19 

Wolf, dire 

3-12 

6 

18 

4+4 

1 

2-8 

Nil 

Nil 

N 

15 

Wfollwere 

1-3 

3 

15 

5 + 1 

2 

2-12 + weapon 

Singing 

- 

CE 

15 

Wyvem 

1-6 

3 

6/24 

7+7 

2 

246/1-6 

Poison 

- 

N(E) 

13 


28 











Grist (True Gargoyles) 


CLIMAXE/TERRAIN: 

FREQUENCY; 
ORGANIZATION: 
ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

DIET: 

INTELLIGENCE: 

TREASURE: 

ALIGNMENT: 

Any stone building or rocky 
mountainside 

Very rare 

Solitary 

Any 

Special 

Semi- (2-4) 

L,M.N 

Neutral 

NO. APPEARING: 

2-8 

ARMOR CLASS: 

0 

MOVEMENT: 

9 t FI 12 (B) 

HIT DICE: 

8+4 (42 bps) 

THAC0: 

11 

NO* OF ATTACKS: 

4 (sometimes 6) 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

1-8/1-8/1-10/1-8 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Fear gaze* snatch 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

+ 1 or better weapon needed to 
hit 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

20% 

SIZE: 

L (12') 

MORALE: 

Fearless (19) 

XP VALUE: 

7,000 



The grist is a rock-like creature that resembles a gargoyle or mar- 
goyle* but it is considerably larger and much more fearsome* 
Grists were created by Jason Krimeah, the Exalted One, by taking a 
statue resembling a gargoyle and casting wish, stone shape, poly 
morph any object, fear, By, and geas spells upon it, Grists are semi - 
intelligent and thus able to follow only the simplest of instructions. 
But they follow these instructions to the letter. It is unknown how 
many grists the mage created, but several dozen are believed to ex 
ist* Krimeah termed his creation ''true gargoyles,*' as they fit his vi 
sion of what a gargoyle should be. 

A grist has been enchanted to give it a resistance to magic and an 
immunity to normal weapons- Its skin looks like the exterior of the 
stone building or rocky mountainside it attaches itself to, and its 
dense rock make-up causes the grist to weigh between one and 
three Lons* Despite its weight, a grist moves at a rate of 9 on the 
ground and 12 in the air. The wings are not needed for (light, but 
they are used to help it maneuver while in the air. If the wings be 
come damaged, the maneuverability class of the grist worsens by 
one* 

A grist can effortlessly cling to the sides of buildings and rocky 
mountainsides. It can only bond itself to stone* brick, or rock. When 
in place, the grist looks like an unmovable statue of a stone gargoyle 
that is part of the building. 

Combat: A gri s t remains in place on the side of a building or mou n- 
tain until the conditions of its orders are met, such as "prevent any 
armored humans from entering this buildingA grist with this order 
would remain in its statue-like pose until a human attempts to enter 
its building or tries to attack it, at which time it animates. Until that 
time, only a detect life spell will register the grist as a living crea 
ture, A detect magic spell will show that the grist is enchanted* 

Once a grist is animated, it fights fearlessly until destroyed. It pre 
fers to fight from the air* as it can maneuver better. When attacking, 
a grist prefers to direct all of its blows against a single target in an at 
tempt to dispatch that target and then move on to the next. It at 
tacks with its daws, bite, and a tail swat. The tail of a grist is usually 
spiked like a maul* In addition* some grists have four arms instead of 


two, giving them six attacks per round. If two of a grist's claws hit 
the same opponent during a single round, the grist has successfully 
snatched its opponent. Such an opponent is usually taken into the air 
to be hurled back down to the ground in an attempt to quickly dis 
patch it* 

Once every ten minutes the grist can generate a fear gaze. This 
cone-shaped gaze appears as a gray beam emitted from the crea 
ture *s eyes* The cone is two feet wide at its point of origin. 30 feet 
wide at the base, and 60 feet long. Creatures caught in the gaze 
must roll successful saving throws vs. spell or be affected as by a 
fear spell. 

The grist is immune to normal and magical fire and cold* In addi 
tion, it has a 20% magic resistance to all other spells. The grist is not 
affected by poisons. 

Habitat/Society: The grist does not speak, as it has no vocal 
cords. It follows the orders of its master and is incapable of indepen 
dent thought. 

A wounded grist repairs itself by reattaching to its assigned struc 
ture and drawing minerals from it. It heals at a rate of 24 hit points a 
day. 

There are no males or females of the species; grists are created 
magically and cannot reproduce* Nor do grists change size, remain 
ing throughout their existence at the same height and weight they 
were given at their creation. 

Grists are found in groups of 2d4, the more numerous they are, 
the more important the item being guarded. Grists have no real trea 
sure of their own. However, if defeated grists are shattered, gems 
and coins occasionally can be found inside Lhem-they consume 
rocks and minerals found on Lheir victims, which includes ore, coins, 
and gems and jewelry. 

Ecology; Grists are found attached to the inside or outside of 
buildings, as well as along columns, roofs, and rocky mountainsides* 
They have not been encountered elsewhere. They are not believed 
to communicate with each other. 




Griveling 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 
FREQUENCY: 
ORGANIZATION: 
ACTIVITY CYCLE: 
DIET: 

INTELLIGENCE: 

TREASURE: 

ALIGNMENT: 


Any cavern or mountain 

Very rare 

Clan 

Any 

Minerals 
High (1344) 

Special 
Neutral Good 


NO, APPEARING: 
ARMOR CLASS: 
MOVEMENT: 

HIT DICE: 

THACO: 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 
DAMAGE/ ATTACK: 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: 
SPECIAL DEFENSES; 

MAGIC RESISTANCE; 
SIZE: 

MORALE: 

XP VALUE: 


2 or 2-24 
2(4) 

9, 12 (through stone) 

5+2 

15 

2 

1-8/1 -a 

Spells 

Spells, +1 or better weapon 

needed to hit 

Nil 

M{6') 

Steady (12) 

1,400 



Grivelings are creatures believed to be natives of the elemental 
plane of Earth. It is unknown, even to the grivelings, whether they 
wandered through a portal to this plane or were transported here by 
mages. The grivelings cannot plane travel, and therefore are bound 
to Oerth, They have not been seen outside the Barrier Peaks and 
the Valley of the Mage. 

Grivelings are found either in pairs or in clans of 2dl2, They have a 
humanoid form-two legs* two arms, and a head. In their normal 
state they do not possess the defined features of humanoids, such as 
distinctive muscles, fingers, ears* eyes, and mouths. However, 
grivelings that are used to dealing with or observing humans and de- 
mihumans alter their forms via a limited, yet natural, stone shape 
ability so they appear to have human-like facial features, digits, and 
clothes, mimicking the humans and demihumans they have seen. 

Many of the grivelings that live in the Barrier Peaks have the vis 
ages of Zurt, Summerstorm, Endoble* the First Protector* and the 
various guises of the Exalted One. Often the grivelings are not able 
to duplicate a humanoid face correctly, and the result is unusual or 
humorous, with eyes placed below mouths or odd-shaped ears in in 
correct locations. Males and females are indistinguishable. 

The grivelings, like the humans and demihumans in the Valley of 
the Mage, are believed to serve Jason Krimeah, the Exalted One. 
Grivelings range between four and six feet tall and weigh 1,000 to 
3,500 pounds, 

Combat: Grivelings are not fond of fighting, preferring to find 
peaceful solutions to differences between themselves and others. 
However, when pressed to fight, they fight relentlessly, using their 
heavy stone fists to batter opponents into submission, Grivelings at 
tempt to kill opponents only when their own lives seem in danger. 

Because grivelings can see through rock and dirt as easily as oth 
ers see through the air, they lie in wait inside the wall of a cave or 
other stone or dirt structure, and move part of their body out of Lhe 
structure to fight, usually surprising opponents from behind or be 
neath* When grivelings remain attached to a stone wall, such as the 
side of a cavern, their Armor Class is 4, When they separate from 
the wall to engage opponents m melee or if they are attached to the 
earth, their Armor Class is reduced to 2. 

When possible, grivelings use their surroundings to Lhe utmost 
advantage during combat. For example, grivelings surprising their 


opponents often strike during one round of combat, and then move 
into the stone wall the next-only to emerge the following round 
from a different place in an attempt to surprise their opponents 
again. 

Grivelings also use their spell-like abilities during combat, A 
griveling can perform any of the following, once per day; stoneskin, 
transmute rock to mud. transmute mud to rock f and dig as if it were 
an 8th-level wizard. 

Because grivelings are not affected by the climate, they are not af 
fected by normal cold or fire attacks or cold-based spells. However, 
magical heat and lire spells affect them. Further, because of their 
hard skins, +1 or better weapons are needed to injure them. 

Habitat/Society: Grivelings dwell inside the stone walls of ca 
verns and inside mountains. In addition, they can live outside these 
surroundings, such as in caves, wooded areas, or in other terrains* 
but they prefer to be surrounded by rocks or dirt. They are not af 
fected by a change in climate. 

Grivelings are friendly and curious, spending much of their time 
watching the creatures in the vale who travel next to the Barrier 
Peaks and questioning them about what is happening deeper in the 
valley Because they have observed the occupants of the vale for so 
long, they have acquired the common tongue, which they speak in 
slow, gravely tones. In addition, they speak a smattering of moun 
tain dwarf and their own language. When Lheir curiosity gets the 
best of them, they travel from their rock homes and into the wilder 
ness, These trips are short and infrequent. 

Members of a griveling dan rarely act without consulting others, 
as grivelings respect each others' counsel. Grivelings are very pro 
tective of their peers and share all of their accumulated wealth. 

A mated pair of grivelings produces one offspring every six to 12 
years, with the sex of the offspring chosen by the parents* 

E col ogy: Grivelings eat very little because of th eir inc re dibly slow 
metabolisms. Their diet consists of minerals, such as iron, silica, 
lead, and magnesium* which makes them a bane to miners. The av 
erage life span of a griveling is 1,500 years* 




Jakar 


CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 

FREQUENCY: 
ORGANIZATION: 
ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

DIET: 

INTELLIGENCE: 

TREASURE: 

ALIGNMENT: 

Valley of the Mage and surround 
ing area 

Unique 

Solitary 

Any 

Omnivore 

Genius (17-18) 

Special 

Neutral 

NO* APPEARING: 

I 

ARMOR CLASS: 

5 better than the form assumed 

MOVEMENT: 

Per form assumed 

HIT DICE: 

18 (90 hps) 

THACO: 

3 

NO* OF ATTACKS: 

Special 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

Special 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 

Per form assumed 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

Immune to enchantment/charm 
spells 

MAGIC RESISTANCE; 

+2 to saves vs lire and electrical 
attacks 

SIZE: 

Variable 

MORALE: 

Champion (15) 

XP VALUE: 

15*000 



The jakar (pronounced ye-kare) r or changer, is similar to a lycan- 
thrope in that it can change from a human to an animal form. How 
ever, the jakar can assume any animal form and can appear as a 
human of any age. 

The jakar, a creation of Jason Krimeah* the Exalted One, pos 
sesses a polymorph self ability that enables it to take on the form of a 
mammal, avian, or reptile, ranging in weight from 8,000 pounds to 
l k pound. The jakar possesses the physical attacks of the assumed 
form, such as a dragon's daw and bite attacks, but not its breath 
weapon. Because of this unique ability, a jakar is virtually impossible 
to detect. 

Combat: The jakar's fighting skills are based on the form it has as 
sumed, employing to the fullest all the physical attacks of the form. If 
the jakar knows it will be in combat* it frequently assumes the form 
of a large ape or a great cat because of the damage these forms can 
inflict, the movement rate allowed it, and its ability to travel through 
the terrain* 

The jakar assumes the mannerisms of the form it has taken; in a 
cat form* it stalks its opponents and sometimes plays with them be 
fore dealing a killing blow. 

The jakar can be unnerving to its targets during a fight because of 
its hit points and unusual Armor Class; its Armor Gass is always 5 
better than the form it has chosen. For example, an elephant has an 
AC of 6, but a jakar in elephant form has an AC of 1. 

Habitat/Society: Only one jakar is known to exist, and it has 
been seen only within the Valley of the Mage, The jakar was once a 
human hierophant druid who made his home in the vale, finding the 
company of animals more to his liking than humans. The druid spent 
little time in his human form. The druid, called Jakar Whitewing* en 
countered Jason Krimeah after the mage appointed himself ruler of 
the valley. A violent confrontation ensued between the pair, as Jakar 
was tired of humans pretending to control nature, However, Kri 
meah and Jakar emerged from the incident unscathed, and the pair 
became as close to being friends as either of them would permit. 

Krimeah, obsessed with experimenting with magic and intrigued 
by the druid's preoccupation with animals, offered to work on a mag 


ical item that would enable Jakar to change form more often than his 
class allowed. In exchange the druid agreed to add his might to pro 
tect the valley. Jakar was confident that if anything went awry' he 
would be able to dispel the effects of the magical item. 

It took Krimeah a little more than a year to fashion a collar of chain 
mail imbued with a special polymorph self ability, The collar permits 
Jakar to change into any animal or human form up to 24 times a day. 
fully assuming all the physical abilities of the shape selected* Jakar 
cannot assume the form of an unnatural creature, such as an 
owlbear; the form must be of a natural animal. It is believed Krimeah 
made more than one of these collars, and some suspect that he gave 
them to others to create more jakar. 

The druid was pleased with Krimeah's "gift" and promptly 
pledged his life in defense of the vale and the mage. The druid 
donned the collar nearly three decades ago and has not seemed to 
have aged since. Jakar is at peace, moving more freely in the animal 
kingdom than he ever believed possible, and rarely selecting a hu 
man shape because he thinks of himself as an animal. He did not mind 
the side effects of the potent magical item; the druid cannot remove 
the collar and cannot cast druidical spells while wearing it. However, 
he has retained the following druidical abilities, which he can use in 
any form: identify plants, animals* and pure water; pass through un 
dergrowth without leaving a trail; immune to charm spells cast by 
woodland creatures: +2 bonus to saving throws vs. all electrical and 
fire attacks. 

It is believed other jakar would have different abilities, based on 
the class they had in their human form. 

Ecology : The jakar lives alone or with other animals of the form it 
has assumed. It is omnivorous, eating whatever the animal"s form it 
has assumed prefers. The jakar's treasure consists of the items it 
owned at the time it became a jakar and any additional items it ac 
quired from the creatures and people it killed, its lairs can be found 
in inaccessible spots, such as high on a mountain peak, or deep in a 
cavern, to prevent others from obtaining its treasure. The jakar 
speaks the language of the animal form it has assumed; in human 
form it speaks any languages it knew at the time the collar was 
placed on it. 

The life span of the jakar is unknown. 






Jaleeda 



CLIMATE/TERRAIN: 
FREQUENCY: 
ORGANIZATION: 
ACTIVITY CYCLE: 

DIET: 

INTELLIGENCE: 

TREASURE: 

ALIGNMENT: 

Any temperate or subtropical 
Very rare 

Solitary 

Any, usually night 

Omnivore 

Low (5-7) 

D 

Neutral evil 

NO. APPEARING: 

I (1-0 

ARMOR CLASS: 

4 

MOVEMENT: 

15, FI 24 (C) 

HIT DICE: 

8 

THACO: 

13 

NO, OF ATTACKS: 

3 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

1-8/1-8/1-12 

SPECIAL .ATTACKS: 

Snatch, cry 

SPECIAL DEFENSES: 

Immune to charm spells 

MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

Nil 

SIZE: 

L (8 f -9 f ) 

MORALE: 

Unsteady (7) 

XP VALUE: 

2,000 



A jaleeda bird is a bizarre creation of Jason Krimeah, the Exalted 
One. It was a by-product of his research to create a jakar. The bird, 
developed utilizing the theories that created the owlbear, is a hid 
eous cross between a great ape and a giant eagle. It is named after 
Krimeah's uncle, whom the mage despised. The creature is mean 
and ravenous, and possesses a cruelty unmatched by any other ani 
mal in the vale. Its behavior is believed to stem from its unnatural 
condition, Krimeah created a dozen of these birds, none of which he 
could control. He released them into the valley, where tales of their 
appearance has been added to the reported monster sightings that 
keep common folk from trespassing into his land, 

JaJeedas are covered with a mix of thick, black hair and brown and 
white feathers, which give them their Armor Class. The ugly crea 
ture has taloned, ape-like hands at the end of its great wings, which 
also are covered with hair and feathers. Its feet end in large, power 
ful talons. It has a large ma w that is both ape- and bird-like-a jagged 
yellow beak and a mouth full of teeth. J alee das range in height from 
eight to nine feet, and have a 30-foot wingspan. They have piercing 
red, deep-set eyes. The birds have little sanity, as the process that 
created them ripped away their reason. 

Combat: A jaleeda fights with little provocation, rapidly going af 
ter creatures and people it believes has invaded its territory. The 
bird usually announces itself with a shrill cry that sounds like a great 
ape in pain; the cry is so Joud and terrifying that creatures of less 
than 5 Hit Dice that hear it must roll successful saving throws vs, 
petrification or run in fear for ld6 rounds. The bird usually attacks 
three or fewer creatures, having enough sense not to tadde too 
many foes. A jaleeda attacks a large group of creatures or people 
only if its cry has caused some of them to scatter. The bird prefers to 
pursue creatures affected by its cry so it can attack them from be 
hind. 

The jaleeda apparently has no combat strategy, for the bird wildly 
plunges at its target or targets. It can attack with the claws on its 
wings and its bite, or with its taloned feet and its bite. If the bird suc 
cessfully attacks a victim with both of its feet t it has in effect 
snatched the victim and can carry him aloft. The bird has been 
known to drag a victim across the tops of trees or along the sides of 
mountains to kill him before tossing him to the ground where it de 
vours him. 


Because the bird has such a low intelligence and little sanity, it can 
not be charmed. 

Habitat/Society: Jaleedas nest at the tops of low f Iy crags or high 
in the branches of targe trees. They establish a territory around 
Lheir lairs and attack creatures entering the territory, 

If a jaleeda is encountered alone, it is likely a young bird, one to 
three years in age; birds older than that mate with others of their 
kind, mating for life and producing Id6 eggs every six months. Only 
one jaleeda hatchling survives. The first to hatch devours the un 
hatched eggs. The young jaleeda stays with the parents until it is 
time for the next dutch of eggs to hatch; at this time it is sent out on 
its own. 

At one time the population within the vale was estimated at nine 
dozen, but the valley elves and tree people have reduced that num 
ber by about two-thirds. It is unknown how many jaleeda birds exist 
outside the valley. The elves and tree people have little trouble dis 
patching a bird that has established its territory near one of the 
settlements. The elves and tree people routinely set up a dummy in 
a clearing within the bird's territory and hide in the foliage with their 
hows ready. Because the bird is stupid, it usually flies at the dummy 
and is brought down by a volley of arrows Although the bird has 
keen senses of hearing and eyesight, it has a poor sense of smell and 
no common sense. 

Ecology: Jaleeda birds are omnivorous, eating plants, animals, 
and humans and demihumans. They do not like water and therefore 
refrain from eating fish and creatures that Uve on river banks. Their 
preferred diet is monkeys and large birds. w F hich they seem to envy 
and detest. 

Jaleedas' covet treasure, collecting items from their prey and hid 
ing these in their nests. They especially enjoy shiny objects and reg 
ularly inventory their horde to make sure creatures invading their 
territory have not stolen from them, 

Jaleedas are believed to live about 50 years and are able to lay 
eggs through the first 40 years. They seem to have no language, but 
communicate with each other through horrid-sounding caws and 
wing gestures. 






Beg inning the AOventuRe 


There are several ways the DM can involve 
the player characters in this adventure. The 
easiest way is to start the adventure in Bis- 
selp near the Valley of the Mage, 

In Bissel, which is detailed in the 
Greyhawk Boxed Set, the PCs hear stories 
about six necromancers who had been ter 
rorizing small communities within the coun 
try, robbing low-level mages and 
adventuring parties, threatening many of 
the locals, harming those who opposed 
them, and making plans to take over part of 
the country. 

Bissel forces drove the necromancers out 
of the country, and the citizenry is currently 
pleased with the government for its show of 
strength. The citizens are content and no 
longer fear a threat from the necromancers. 

However, the PCs also hear rumblings 
that the government is still concerned about 
the evil spelleasters and wants something 
done to make sure they pose no further 
threat to Bissel or the nearby countries. 
Government spies are certain the necro 
mancers eventually will be back. 

To draw the PCs into the adventure, His 
Lord Grace, Walgar, the Margrave of Kis 
sel, could seek out experienced adventur 
ers to find the necromancers, determine 
their intentions, and try to defeat them if 
their plans of conquest still hold. 

If you are running a Greyhawk campaign, 
and the player characters are far from Bis 
sel, they could learn of a handsome reward 
being offered by the Margrave of Bissel in 
exchange for spying on some evil wizards. 
Or, if the PCs are well known in some of the 
countries in the Flanaess, they could re 
ceive a notice from Bissel officials, asking 
them to come before His Lord Grace. 

If you take one of these approaches, or 
develop another that brings the PCs before 
the Bissel leader, introduce the players to 
the scenario by reading the following pas 
sage. Ail boxed sections in this adventure 
contain information that the PCs would get 
by entering rooms, talking with NPCs, or 
being confronted by encounters or situa 
tions. You can either read the boxed text as 
is or paraphrase it to suit your needs. 

If you prefer, you can set the beginning of 
the adventure in another country near the 
Valley of the Mage, such as Gran March, 


Veluna, Ket, or the Grand Duchy of Geoff, 
substituting the ruler of Bissel for the ruler 
or a top official of the country you have se 
lected. 


You are brought before His Lord Grace, 
Walgar, the Margrave of Bissel From 
his seat in a large carved wooden chair 
inlaid with silver, Walgar leans forward 
and eyes your group. The leader is 
flanked on his right and left by uniformed 
guards standing at attention* Guards 
also stand at the entrance to this room, 
which is immense and devoid of furniture 
except for Walgar r s chair, which sits on a 
two-tiered dais* 

"Great adventurers," the Margrave of 
Bissel says. "I have heard of your prow 
ess and accomplishments and ask you to 
come to the aid of the March of Bissel, 
The Lirtlemark. I-and the people of this 
great country-have need of the serv 
ices of strong, competent folk who are 
not attached to the Bissel government, 
or to any government, and who are ex 
perienced fighters and spelleasters. The 
task will not be easy, but I am certain you 
are up to it." 

The Margrave furrows his brow, and 
his eyes drift to his ring-encrusted hand; 
the largest ring clearly displays the coat 
of amis of Bissel "I love this land and 
the people " he continues, "And there is 
a force that 1 believe could threaten 
both-and more* Perhaps I am being 
overly concerned* Perhaps the threat 
has passed. But I believe it is better to 
be cautious and safe than overconfident 
and in jeopardy. 

"Recently, a group of wizards, necro 
mancers to be more precise, came into 
Bissel and started threatening some of 
the people in the outlying areas. They 
attacked low-Jeve! adventurers, particu 
larly other wizards. It was clear they 
were after magic or something arcane. 
They harassed people in the villages, 
harming those who made any show of 
strength against them. And they began 
to eye portions of the land for their own. 
These necromancers, who numbered 
only a half-dozen, were difficult for my 


forces to find, as with their spells they 
could cloak their comings and goings. 
Still, eventually we found them when 
they became bold and tried to bully the 
residents of a village my soldiers were 
hiding in. There were several fatalities 
accrued among my force, but eventually 
the necromancers were banished from 
the land. We knew better than to try to 
take them in with the force we had be 
fore them. Bissel clerics and mages are 
using spells to watch the country's bor 
ders and make sure they do not return. 

"Most of my advisors assure me the 
necromancers are gone for good. How 
ever, a few advisors believe they will be 
back when they have more power. And if 
they don't come back here, they will 
come back elsewhere; those who desire 
political power are loathe to give up their 
quest " Walgar pauses and slouches for 
ward in his chair, resting his chin in his 
hand. 

"Informants who followed the necro 
mancers tracked them to the Valley Of 
the Mage, a mysterious land ruled by a 
man called the Black One. He also goes 
by other names-the Exalted One and 
the Mage of the Vale. I am certain there 
are more titles* The mage is said to be 
powerful and evil. Many believe he is hu 
man, but if that is true, he must be an 
cient. He has controlled the valley for 
decades and has the loyalty of the demi- 
humans said to live there. He seems 
content to rule the vale, leaving the 
nearby countries alone, 

"We do not want to war on liim or at 
tempt an assassination. Bissel and the 
surrounding countries do not need to 
contend with his loyal followers. Be 
sides, our concern is not the Black One. 
Our concern is what will happen if the 
necromancers team up with him and en 
courage him to broaden his power or de 
feat him and take his place. I know T they 
will not be content to rule only the Valley 
of the Mage* 

"Therein lies your mission. You must 
travel to the valley and find the necro 
mancers. We must know what their in 
tentions are. You cannot let them kill the 


33 










Black One if their plans are to usurp his 
throne, and you cannot let them join 
forces with the mage* as together they 
could be a magical force fe w, if any, could 
stand up to." Walgar rises from his mas 
sive chair, using his aged arms to boost 
himself off the seat* "Of course, there 
may be no need for concern " he says 
evenly, "There are rumored to be mon 
sters in the vale* We could hope that the 
necromancers already have filled the 
monsters' gullets. Make sure you do not 
become food for the creatures." 

He hands you a map drawn on fine 
beige parchment. "One of my inform 
ants, ora spy if you will, has been inside 
the valley. He was captured by a band of 
valley elves, a reclusive race that has 
sworn its allegiance to the Black One. 
The spy reported being questioned, 
roughed up, and escaping. Who knows, 
it is possible the elves let him flee-that 
is what he believes. In any event, while 
he was in the valley he learned a few 
things that should will be of interest to 
you. 

"The valley is carefully guarded; its 
defenses are many, and some of them 
are magical. There are valley elves and 
gnomes within* and at least the elves pa 
trol the land looking for trespassers, 
There are also large creatures and fear 
some monsters* My informant did not 
know if these things were under the con- 
trol of the mage. The informant did not 
see the mage, or a person the elves call 
'The First Protector/ And he was in the 
vale before the necromancers* so he is 
not certain where the necromancers 
may be* if they are still alive, or if they 
have joined with or defeated the Black 
One. 

"He believes all of the vale is heavily 
forested, with the easiest spots to navi 
gate being along the Javan River, which 
begins high in the Barrier Peaks and 
leaves the valley by the Dim Forest. The 
great peaks nearly surround the vale and 
are very difficult to climb, impossible in 
some places, and definitely guarded. 

"There is only one point where there 
are no mountains to bar your way, and 
that point at which the Javan exits the 
valley. We are certain that area is heavily 


guarded* too, but perhaps adventurers 
of your caliber will have little trouble get 
ting in. The only other entrance the in 
formant learned of was a narrow pass 
through the Barrier Peaks-that is how 
he got in. It is marked on your map. I 
care not how you get into the vale, only 
that you do and find the necromancers. 
Perhaps some of the vale's inhabitants 
are friendly enough to give you some in 
formation or point you toward the necro 
mancers. 

"I sincerely suggest you do not try to 
take on the Black One, for l fear that will 
result in problems for all of us. However, 
perhaps if you talk to him or to this First 
Protector, you will be able to turn them 
against the necromancers." Walgar walks 
toward the exit, half of the soldiers stay 
ing several steps behind him. Then he 
turns for some parting words. "Bissel will 
pay you handsomely for undertaking tliis 
mission. Each of you will be given 4,000 
gold pieces-half now in gems, the other 
half upon your return in a currency of your 
choice. I have a few trusted assistants 
available if you want to discuss the matter 
with them. Perhaps they can pass on 
some additional knowledge that wall be 
beneficial to you," 


While Walgar wants the PCs to undertake 
the mission as soon as possible, he will un 
derstand their desire to prepare for the ad 
venture. Walgar will supply them with any 
basic equipment they want in addition to 
mounts. He will provide up to medium war 
horses. Further, he probably can be talked 
out of some leafing potions or scrolls with 
cure light wounds spells on them. If the PCs 
ask for more than a half dozen of these, he 
will decrease their reward in exchange. 

If the PCs talk to Walgar's assistants, the 
soldiers, or to some of the people in Bissel 
and the surrounding countries, they can 
learn the following statements, not all of 
which are true. True statements are fol 
lowed by (T). False statements are fol 
lowed by (F). 

* Common people stay away from the Valley 
of the Mage because it is dangerous and 
foreboding. (T) 


* Few adventurers dare to go there for the 
same reason. There are many other places 
on Oerth to seek fame and riches. (T) 

* The necromancers probably are not en 
tirely what they seem. Spellcasters do not 
carry swords, and one of the "necroman 
cers" definitely had a sword.(T) 

* There are tales that a handful of experi 
enced adventures breached the vale and 
came back with platinum and gems. (T) 

* There are vast riches rumored to lie un 
guarded in the Valley of the Mage because 
the demihumans who live there do not know 
what is valuable. Tales say pieces of plati 
num can be found in stream beds. (F) 

* A patrol from Gran March entered the 
vale several years ago to gain information 
about the Black One. But none of the patrol 
returned, and Gran March has sent no addi 
tional patrols. (T) 

* Some say the Black One is human and 
comes from a land nearby. (T) 

* However, some say he is a demon or a 
lich, for humans cannot naturally live that 
long, And, further, he controls an army of 
undead that walk throughout the vale. (F) 

* The Mage is mad, and is dangerous be 
cause of his insanity. He is said to detest hu 
mans and will permit no human to live within 
his domain. (F) 

* The mage has the cooperation of moun 
tain dwarves who live in the Barrier Peaks. 
The dwarves do their best to let no one 
pass. (T) 

* The valley is heavily guarded, as the Black 
One does not want trespassers coming into 
the Valley of the Mage. (T) 

* Monsters roam throughout the valley, 
making the place unsafe. (T) 

* Even the natural creatures are dangerous 
and numerous. (T) 

+ There are a great many traps and magical 
barriers that also prevent entry to the val 
ley. (T) 

* And once someone has entered, he can 
never leave. (F) 


34 















Mg?!(r) 



^^ 7 iUl 






* The Valley of the Mage is not a valley at 
all, nor is it part of Oerth. The valley is lo 
cated on another plane, and walking into the 
valley takes you to that plane, (F) 

* There are no humans living inside the vale 
other than the Black One, if indeed he is hu 
man. Valley elves and gnomes are the only 
people inside the vale. (F) 

* The valley elves live in a great stone cita 
del near the river that was built by the Black 
One. (F) 

* The Black One and his most trusted asso 
ciates live in a citadel off the Javan River. 
The citadel is an impressive stone struc 
ture. (F) 

* The citadel is there, but is no longer occu 
pied by the mage, (T) 

* No one in Bissel knows what the Black 
One looks like. (T) 

* The Black One no longer exists, He was 
human, and as such his life span was limited 
and he died decades ago. However, rumors 
of his existence continue only because no 


one has been in the Valley of the Mage to 
prove otherwise. (F) 

The player characters are advised not to 
take horses if they intend to get into the val 
ley through the Barrier Peaks. Horses can 
not traverse the mountains except for the 
foothills. They will have no trouble taking 
horses into the valley if they go through the 
entrance by the Dim Forest. However, the 
Bissel soldiers will point out that horses are 
more noticeable than men walking, and they 
make more noise, 

A group of Bissel soldiers will volunteer 
to ride with the PCs to the far edge of the 
Dim Forest, and then take the PCs* 
mounts. The Bissel soldiers will not escort 
the PCs farther than the Dim Forest. 

The PCs are given a complete description 
of the six necromancers, down to the deco 
rations on their robes. The Bissel officials 
cannot provide the PCs with descriptions of 
the Black One or the First Protector. 

Going Inside 

The DM must pay attention to where the PCs 
plan to enter the Valley of the Mage and con 


sult the valley's defenses, detailed in previous 
sections, to determine what the PCs will be 
up against. The monster statistic chart on 
page 28, listing the creatures found in the 
vale, can be used to generate wandering 
encounters for the PCs. In addition, you will 
have to remember the patrols that regularly 
travel through the valley looking for tres 
passers and unusual occurrences. 

Further encounters are indicated by the 
letters on the DM T s vale defense map. Con 
sult the map. When the PCs travel near a 
letter on the map, turn to the section of the 
text under "Encounters and Oddities" 
(page 40) to determine what they see. 

After the PCs have been briefed on their 
mission, you can go directly to thdr at 
tempts to enter the vale, or you might want 
to run a mini-ad venture from Bissel to the 
vale. 

The Exalted One's location is detailed in 
the following section. You may elect to not 
have the PCs encounter him if you believe 
they would destroy him. The Exalted One 
is a powerful NPC you will want to keep 
around for a while in your Greyhawk cam 
paign. 


35 








the necRomanceRS 


Nyeru Darkspring 

Male Human 

lGth-Level Wizard (Necromancer) 

AC 3 ( bracers AC 6 and Dex bonus): MV 
12; HD 10; hp 30; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon 
type (staff or dagger); SA spells; SD spells; 
STR 10, DEX 17, CON 16. INT 18, WI5 
15, CHA IS; Spells: 5 lst t 5 2nd, 4 3rd, 3 
4th, 3 5th; AL NE; THACO 17 

Nyeru Darkspring is the only son of a wealthy 
Bissel alchemist. He studied under one of Bis- 
sel's most accomplished mages, a Wend of the 
family who had been purchasing components 
from the Darksprings for many years. How 
ever, Nyeru wanted to learn spells that would 
enable him to control dead creatures, some 
thing his tutor abhorred. Frustrated, Nyeru 
left Bissel and journeyed to the Great King 
dom, where he found wizards who would 
teach him what he wanted. The mage vowed 
to return to Bissel one day and show off his 
great magical might. 

Nyeru threw his lot in with a small band of 
necromancers who were passing through 
the Great Kingdom. Together, the mages 
decided to subjugate a portion of Oerth and 
form their own kingdom. 

Nyeru is by no means the most powerful 
of the mages, but be considers himself their 
leader because of his wealth and drive for 
political power. Nyeru has long black hair 
and a beard. 

The magical items he wears and carries 
are bracers of protection AC 6 , stuff +3, 
bag of holding {largest capacity), boots of 
striding and leaping, wand of magic 
missiles T and a dagger + 2 . 

The potions he carries are those of extra- 
healing, invisibility, ESP and sweet water: 

The spells he usually has memorized are 
as follows: 

1st Level: cantrip, chill touch, detect 
magic , grease , unseen servant 
2nd Level: delect invisibility, fog cloud, lev 
itate, spectral hand (x2) 

3rd Level: delude, feign death, fly, ; vampiric 
touch 

4th Level: contagion, enervation, poly 
morph self 

5th Level: animate dead , magic jar, sum 
mon shadow 


Albion Aalkrost 

Male Drow 

9th-Levei Wizard (Diviner) 

AC 0 (cloak, ring, and Dex bonus); MV 12; 
HD 9; hp 26; #AT 1; Dmg by weapon type 
(staff or dagger); SA drow abilities, spells; 
SD drow abilities, spells; STR 8, DEX 18, 
CON 13, INT 18, W1S 18 r CHA 15; Spells 5 
1st, 4 2nd, 4 3rd, 3 4th, 2 5th; AL NE; 
THACO 18 

Albion is allying liimself with the small band 
of necromancers until he gains what lie con 
siders to be sufficient magic and spells to 
strike off on his own to establish an under 
ground stronghold. Albion has no desire to 
rule a portion of the Oerth, as he cares little 
for the concerns of surface people. However, 
he recognizes that he can improve himself in 
the company of these mages, and so he bides 
his time, follows the directions of Nyeru, and 
keeps his personal motives hidden. 

Although he detests the light, he has 
forced himself to adapt to the surface world 
and is only at a disadvantage in the presence 
of bright, magical light. Albion also detests 
Elock, the most powerful mage in the group. 
He seeks to make himself look more power 
ful and important in Block's presence. 

Albion, although not a necromancer, opts 
to carry as many necromantic spells as he is 
able to make himself fit in better with his 
companions. 

He has the following drow abilities, all 
useable once per day: dancing lights, faerie 
fire, darkness, detect magic, know align 
ment, and levitate. 

The magical items he wears and carries 
are a cloak of protection +3, ring of protec 
tion + 3, ring of fire resistance, and a dag 
ger of venom. 

1 le usually carries potions of animal con 
trol, diminution, healing, and ventriloquism. 

\ le usually has the following spells memo 
rized: 

1st Level; cantrip, chill touch, detect 
magic t enlarge, identify 7 
2nd Level; detect invisibility, ESP, shatter, 
spectral hand 

3rd Level; dairaudience , clairvoyance, 
feign death, vampiric touch 
4th Level: contagion, enervation, magic 
mirror 

5th Level: false vision, summon shadow 


Elock 
Male Human 
12th-Level Necromancer 

AC 2 (bracers AC 6 and Dex bonus); MV 
12; HD 12; hp 44; #AT 1; Dmg ld4 (dag 
ger); SA spells; SD spells; STR 15, DEX 
17, CON 18, INT 17, W1S 11, CHA 11; 
Spells 5 1st, 5 2nd, 5 3rd, 5 4th, 5 5th. 2 
6th; AL NE; THACO 17 

Elock intends to vanquish the Exalted One 
and set himself up as the new Mage of the 
Vale. Further, enjoying Nyeru's plan of con 
trolling Bissel, he plans to turn all of the de- 
mihumans in the vale into a well-trained 
army that will inarch on Bissel and then the 
other nearby countries. 

Elock has no love for his companions. 
However, he recognizes that their power 
will help him realize his goals. 

The magical items he wears and carries 
include bracers of defense, AC 6 , ding of 
feather failing 7 periapt of wound closure, 
heads of force (4), wand of lightning (14 
charges), serpentine owl , and a dagger + 3. 

He also has potions of extra healing, fly 
ing, dairaudience, sweet water, and two 
potions of stone giant control, 

Elock usually has the following spells 
memorized; 

1st Level: burning hands, cantrip t chili 
touch, magic missile, spider climb 
2nd Level: darkness 15'radius, knock . rope 
trick, spectra/ hand, web 
3rd Level: fly. light rung bolt, vampiric touch 
(x2), wraithform 

4th Level: contagion, dimension door t ener 
vation. solid fog, wizard eye 
5th Level: avoidance, cone of cold, summon 
shadow, teleport, wall of stone 
6th Level: death spell, Otiluke 5s freezing 
sphere 
















Tracy Windstrider 

Female Human 

5th-Level Necromancer/7th-Level Fighter 

AC -3 (bracers AC 2, ring +3, and Dex bo 
nus); MV 9; HD 7; hp 49; #AT 1; Dmg by 
weapon type {long sword or spear); SA 
spells; SD spells; STR 17, DEX 16, CON 
18, INT 14, MS 10, CHA 18; Spells 5 1st, 
3 2nd, 2 3rd; AL NE; THACO 14 

Because of her Strength and her long sword 
+2 t Tracy gains a +3 bonus to her attack 
and damage rolls. When using her spear, 
she gains a +2 bonus to her attack and 
damage rolls. She carries her traveling spell 
books in a padded backpack. 

As Tracy studied under her cousin, the 
necromancer Block, she learned early in 
her career that she could never hope to 
match his magical prowess. Upon attaining 
5tli level as a necromancer, she set aside 
her magical training and pursued her fight 
ing skills* Even though she continues to 
concentrate on her combat ability, she also 
relies on her necromantic spells. She is con 
fident she will one day become more power 
ful than Elock* 

Tracy feels comfortable among the small 
group of necromancers because she be 
lieves that together they can accomplish 
much. While she is not interested in political 
power, she is interested in wealth and magi 
cal items, something she knows political 
power-such as controlling Bfesel-could 
bring. 

The magical items she wears and carries 
include bracers AC 2, ring of protection 
+3, long sword +2, spear + J, wand of 
magic missiles (48 charges), a scroll with 
three fireball spells (cast by a 9th-level wiz 
ard) on it, and dust of disappearance (2 
uses). 

Tracy carries potions of extra-healing, 
super-heroism, invulnerability. 

She usually has the following spells mem 
orized: 

1st Level: chill touch (x2), magic missile 

(x2), wall of fog 

2nd Level: spectral hand , stinking cloud , 
web 

3rd Level: fireball\ vampiric touch 


Promiss Reynolds 
Male Human 
7th-Levd Cleric 

AC 2 (bandedmail +2); MV9; HD 7; hp37; 
AT 1; Dmg by weapon type {staff or 
mace); SA spells: SD spells; STR 14, DEX 
10, CON 16, INT 15, WXS 18, CHA 11; 
Spells 5 1st, 5 2nd, 3 3rd, 2 4th; AL LE; 
THACO 18 

Promiss threw his lot in with the necroman 
cers because he is obsessed with becoming 
powerful and respected throughout Oerth, 
He is confident that with such power he can 
spread the faith of NerulL his deity. Promiss 
has little respect for wizards; he considers 
their power fleeting and uncertain because 
it does not come from a greater power. 
However, he keeps his feelings to himself, 
pretending to respect his companions and 
taking instructions from Nyeru. 

He trusts only Red and is certain his com 
panions do not trust him. However, he be 
lieves they will not harm him, as they need 
his healing powers. 

Promiss is far from brave, preferring to 
be protected and safe in the midst of the 
necromancers. 

The magical items he wears and carries 
are banded mail + 2 and a mace +2. 

He carries potions of sweet water and fire 
breath , 

He has major access to the spheres of All, 
Charm, Combat, Healing, and Necroman 
tic, and minor access to the spheres of Pro 
tection and Guardian. 

He has the following spells: 

1st Level: bless r cause fear cure light 
wounds (x2), protection from good 
2nd Level: aid, hold person (x2), resist fire, 
silence 15* radius 

3rd Level: curse, feign death ; prayer 
4th Level: cause serious wounds, cure seri 
ous wounds 

Red Morgan 

Male Human 
13th-Level Fighter 

AC -3 (plate mail of blending +2 and Dex 
bonus); MV 9; HD 13; hp 87; MT 2; D 
ld6 + 3 (staff +3); SA nil; SD nil; STR 18/ 
00, DEX 17, CON 17. INT 10, WIS 10, 
CHA 15; AL CE; THACO 8 


Red gains a +3 bonus to his attack roll and a 
+ 6 bonus to his damage rolls, because of 
his Strength. When using his staff or dag 
ger, he is a total of +6 to hit, +9 damage. 

Red enjoys the company of the necroman 
cers because it gives him the opportunity to 
pass as a mage* With his plate mail of blend 
ing +2 he appears as a tall, broad- 
shouldered man in deep purple robes. He 
carries a magical staff instead of a sword to 
complete his appearance; with his ring of 
spell storing, he is able to ''cast" spells to 
further confuse his opponents. The ring is 
recharged by Elock. Red is at his best when 
he is in hand-to-hand melee because of the 
massive amounts of damage he can dish 
out. 

In some respects he is the most danger 
ous of the group because his foes do not re 
alize his true class. 

Red is a troubled man, staying with the 
group because of the power and wealth that 
can be attained and because he is afraid to 
leave. He realizes that he knows too much 
about the necromancers and their plans for 
political power to be allowed to live if he left 
their company. 

Red cares only for personal power, want 
ing to become more physically powerful and 
obtain more magical items to further his 
ruse of a mage. He envies Tracy, who is 
able to work as a necromancer and a fighter, 
but he is confident she can never attain his 
fighting skills. He does all he can to show 
her up In combat. 

Red is a cruel man, killing animals and 
people with little or no provocation. He 
rarely eats the animals he kills. When af 
forded the luxury of rime, he prefers to kill 
people slowly so they can fully realize their 
fates* 

The magical items he wears and carries 
include plate mail of blending +2, staff +3 r 
dagger +3, boots of levitation, ring of spell 
storing (vampiric touch f spectra/ hand, 
wraith form, fly, and enervation). 

He carries potions of invulnerability, he 
roism, extra healing ; and sweet water. 


37 









Visiting the 


If the player characters come upon one of 
the human or demihuman communities in 
the vale, they must deal with the residents, 
who know the Exalted One does not want 
strangers in the vale. The community will 
rally its forces to subdue the PCs or will im 
press upon them to surrender. The resi 
dents will not start a light unless the PCs 
threaten the community or refuse to do as 
the residents demand. The residents know 
it is better to keep the characters alive, as 
more information can be extracted from 
them. If the PCs elect to fight, a battle could 
be disastrous; in a small community the PCs 
could wipe out the population. However, in 
a large community the sheer number of res 
idents could spell the defeat of the adven 
turers. Consult the "Valley Elves," the 
"Gnomes of the Vale," and the "Tree Peo 
ple" sections for information about the 
races. 

If the PCs are subdued or surrender, the 
leaders of the community quiz them about 
their presence in the vale, where they are 
from, and their intentions. If the PCs are 
convincing in their story about the necro 
mancers and the danger the evil spellcast- 
ers could pose to the Exalted One, the 
leaders believe their story and summon the 
First Protector or the leader of their re 
spective race-Summerstorm, Zurt, or En- 
doble. 

The community will provide the PCs a 
guide or two to escort them through the 
vale in search of the necromancers while 
the Exalted One is found and the matter 
brought to his attention. If the PCs are 
wounded, they are healed, fed, and given 
rations. 

The elven villages consist of thatched 
homes built on ground level. The residential 
buildings are around the villages' perimeter, 
while the common buildings are in the center. 

The gnome villages consist of burrows that 
look like large mole hills, including the com 
mon facilities and meeting halls. Many of the 
burrows liave herb gardens or wild flowers 
planted on top of them for decoration. 

The tree people communities are con 
structed in large trees, and the people jump 
from the branches or swing from vines to 
move from one building to the next. 


Villages 

Elven Villages 

Vinestrong, population 800. This village 
specializes in making objects from, house 
hold goods to boats and homes, all from the 
heavy vines that grow throughout the vale. 

Moonhollow. population 800. The resi 
dents of this village are known for concoct 
ing mixtures to aid in the growth of plants 
and to keep insects away. All of the other 
villages trade with Moonhollow for these 
substances. 

Darkglade, population 1,200. This is a 
farming community that grows plants on 
land and has learned to cultivate the mosses 
and plants that grow along the bottom and 
banks of the Javan River. Many of the resi 
dents are also musicians, making flutes by 
treating the reeds that grow along die river 
bank. 

The remainder of the villages are re 
ferred to on the map as "Elf Village" Five 
have populations of 100, two of ISO, and 
two of 200. The villagers are craftsmen, 
farmers, musicians, and artists. They trade 
with other villages throughout the vale. 

Gnome Communities 

Woodsdeep, population 500. Residents 
grow herbs, mushrooms, and other plants 
for themselves and for trade with other vil 
lages, 

Mossburg. population 300, This com 
munity was named for the heavy carpet of 
moss that covers this section of the vale. 
The residents have learned to grow the 
moss into living sculptures that rival the 
stone sculptures of the korreds. Other 
mosses are grown as spices and used for 
trade. 

Femwalk. population 70, Petal rich, 
population 60, and Earth wood, population 
50, are known tliroughout the vale for the 
exceptionally tasty mushrooms the resi 
dents grow. More flavorful mushrooms 
cannot be found anywhere else in the vale. 

Roothorae, population 45, is known for 
the spicy roots grown by the community el 
ders. The roots are prized by the tree peo 
ple, who send runners to Roothome to 


trade ebonwood weapons for the roots. 

Rockpaih, population 44. and Burrow- 
ville, population 35, are known for the fine 
furniture the residents fashion from wood 
and clay. The residents also make clay 
bowls and other items. 

Barkburg. population 66. is a commu 
nity of farmers, some of whom specialize in 
fast-growing, thick-limbed bushes. The 
bark from these bushes is peeled off, 
treated, and used to make scrolls and writ 
ing tablets. 

Badger town, population 30, is self- 
sufficient despite its small size. The resi 
dents farm and fish, and they are known for 
raising and training badgers to serve as 
guard animals. At any given time there are 
15 badgers wandering freely in the village. 

Badgertown badger; AC 4; MV 12, Br 3; 
HD 2: #AT 3: Dmg Id3/ld3/ld4; SA nil; SD 
nil; AL N; THACO 16 

Tree People Villages 

Ebonwood, population 2SQ. The majority 
of tree people clerics live here. The resi 
dents are hunters, fishermen, and have 
learned to craft weapons and furnishings 
from the ebonwood trees in the vale. Their 
ebonwood items are prized by the valley 
elves and gnomes. 

Tambor, Fortune* Swindle, Mooch, 
and Plunder, population 50. 

Seer, Danz, Snaffle, and Scamp, pop 
ulation 45. 

Kardz, Vagabond, and Little Kissel, 

population 60. 

Like the residents of Ebonwood, these 
villagers primarily are hunters. 


38 










Some DMs might prefer not to allow the 
PCs to encounter Jason Krimeah for fear 
they could kill him and thus end the use of an 
interesting NPC and throw the Valley of the 
Mage into turmoil. 

However, if you elect to expose the PCs 
to Jason Krimeah, the following encounter 
can be used any time before or after the 
PCs enter the citadel and deal with the nec 
romancers. How the PCs deal with the Ex 
alted One could determine their fate in the 
valley. 


The Exalted One does not want stran 
gers in his valley, but he is smart enough to 
find out about any trespassers before he 
ejects them from his territory. Therefore, 
by scrying on sections of the vale, the Ex 
alted One spotted the PCs. Rather than call 
in his patrols or the First Protector* the Ex 
alted One has elected to deal with the mat 
ter himself. Using his ha t of disguise, he has 
taken on the form of a dryad and will appear 
to the PCs in a nonthreatening manner. 


The Set Up 

In this guise. The Exalted One has on his 
ring of regeneration , ring of flying, hat of 
disguise * boots of speed, bracers of defense 
AC 2, wand of lightning, potion of 
invisibility and medallion of ESP. 

By the time the PCs come upon the 
dryad, the Exalted One already will have 
cast protection from normal missiles, know 
alignment , and anti-magic shell. 

Consult the section on Jason Krimeah for 
his statistics, background, and spell list. 


39 









encounteRS and Oddities 


The remainder of this module details 
encounters, structures, and unusual ob 
jects in the vale, including the former citadel 
of the Exalted One. Consult the DM T s map 
on page 26 for the location of the objects or 
creatures; the letters on the map corres 
pond to the letters below. 

Areas A and B- 
Korred Kingdom 

Six korred families, of the Clan Exalted, live 
in the five-square-mile area, designated as 
area A. In the center of their territory is an 
unusual stone garden where they gather 
each week for a holiday celebration. 

The Clan Exalted consists of a total of 15 
adults and 28 children of varying ages. 

Four korred families, making up the Clan 
Extol, live within the five-square-mile area 
B. Near the middle of their territory is a se 
ries of odd stone sculptures in a circle. In 
the center of the circle they hold a celebra 
tion each week. 

The Clan Extol consists of a total of 12 
adults and 16 children of varying ages. 

Clan members live in burrows scattered 
throughout each clan's territory. The bur 
rows are protected by magical nets and en 
tangling ropes made from the korred s' hair. 
The clans do not attend each others' cele 
brations. If the celebrations do not fall on 
the same day, however, the elans send 
members to spy on the other group's cele 
bration so they can plan their own event to 
surpass it. 

Despite the friendly rivalry and continual 
one-upmanship, the clans are very cordial 
to each other and will come to the other's 
defense, 

Tf the PCs travel near the dans' territo 
ries and have not taken any precautions to 
hide themselves, they are spotted, and the 
families in the closest korred clan join to 
gether to confront the PCs. 

Read or paraphrase the following descrip 
tion if the korreds come to the PCs: 


You hear movement in the foliage around 
you. The large leaves of waist-high 
bushy plants part to reveal a half-dozen 


three-foot-tall men seemingly covered 
with wild tangles of hair. The men's eyes 
are a shiny black, and they stare at you 
intently. Becoming bolder, one of the 
men moves forward. He has a gnarled 
wooden stick in one hand; his legs end in 
hooves. 

He smiles and speaks (in elvish): "Ye 
bein in the territory of the Clan, Bern ye 
friends, ye kin stay fer a bit and have fun 
with us. Bern ye foes, ye bein outta sorts 
soon. Who be ye?" 


If the PCs come upon the stone garden or 
sculptures of the respective clans, or are 
brought to either place for a celebration, 
read or paraphrase the following: 

Area A-Clan Exalted 


Ahead is a clearing filled with rocks. The 
rocks range in size from that of a sling 
bullet to the size of an elephant, and they 
are arranged in unusual patterns. Some 
of the rocks are tall, reaching toward the 
leafy canopy overhead. Others are low 
and flat and have smaller rocks spaced 
evenly about them, almost like tables 
and chairs. 

Flowered vines crawl up many of the 
larger rocks, and some of the smaller 
rocks are covered with green and yellow 
mosses. In the center of the rock garden 
is a large, crystal-clear pond that is 
ringed with small, smooth stones of a va 
riety of colors. 

Several three-foot-tall creatures cov 
ered with long, tangled hair move into 
the clearing and look at you. The crea 
tures look like men, but their legs end in 
hooves. 


Area B-Clan Extol 


Ahead in the clearing you see strangely 
shaped rocks in a circular formation. 
Some of the rocks are about three feet 
high, others are about 20 feet high. All 
are twisted into unnatural shapes, in 
cluding spirals and ovals; some are obvi 


ously sculptures, such as the rabbits, 
man-sized mushrooms, and ten-foot-tall 
goblets, in the center of the circle is a 
large pond with a small island on it. A thin 
stone bridge leads across the pond to the 
island. On the island are several stone 
tables and chairs. 


The korreds in the Valley of the Mage speak 
their own language in addition to satyr and 
elvish. PCs wanting to talk to the korreds 
have to use one of these languages or magi 
cal means. 

Korred, adult: AC 5; MV 9; HD 6 +1; hp 
varies; ^AT 1; Dmg ld2 +4 or by weapon 
+4; SA hurl rocks for 2d8 points of dam 
age, spells; SD laugh, spells; MR 25%; 
THACO 15 

Korred, child: AC 5; MV 9; HD 4 41; hp 
varies; #AT 1; Dmg ld2-*-4 or by weapon 
+4; SA hurl rocks for 2d8 points of dam 
age, spells; SD laugh, spells; MR 25%; 
THACO 15 

All korreds can voice a magical laugh three 
times per day. Humans and demihumans 
within 60 feet of a laughing korred must roll 
a successful Charisma check on ld20 or be 
stunned for ld4 rounds. A bard's singing 
can nullify the effect. 

Further, korreds can use the following 
abilities at will: stone shape, animate rock, 
stone door (teleport 30 feet), shatter rock, 
transmute rock to mud t and stone tell . 

The Korreds and the PCs 

The korreds are generally a friendly group, 
enjoying singing, dancing, and celebrations. 
They do not attack the PCs unless first at 
tacked or threatened. In the event of an at 
tack, the children are told to return to their 
burrows, while the adults deal with the in 
truders. The adults fight to the death only if 
absolutely necessary. They avoid killing the 
PCs unless there seems no alternative, as 
they don't want to deal with the bodies. The 
korreds know dead creatures attract mon 
sters, and they certainly don't want to con 
tend with them. Their battle tactics include 


40 














laughing to stun the PCs, then retreating to 
their burrow homes- II the PCs pursue 
them, the korreds again try to stun them. If 
they are successful, they haul the PCs out 
of the valley. If they are not successful, the 
korreds fight to kill the PCs. 

If the player characters act neutral to the 
korreds, the korreds watch them for a 
while, providing them with no information. 
They do not prevent the PCs' continued ex 
ploration of the vale. However, after the 
PCs are out of sight, korred messengers 
look for a valley patrol and notify the patrol 
about the PCs, 

If, instead, the PCs are cordial to the 
korreds, the clan encountered is friendly in 
return and considers the occasion cause for 
a celebration. Plans immediately begin for 
the evening's festivities. The korreds have 
not seen outsiders in the vale before, and 
they want to know everything about the 
strangers and where they come from- The 
dan believes this will give them an edge on 
the other korred clan, because they will 
have knowledge and friends the others do 
not. 

The korreds will be very persuasive to 
get the PCs to stay for the party, including 
bribing them with information- Of course, 
the korreds won't reveal the information 
until after the party is over. 

If the PCs refuse to attend the party', a 
few korreds follow the PCs for a mile or two 
out of curiosity, but they do not take any 
actions against the characters. 

If the PCs agree to be guests at the party, 
the korreds take them to either the stone 
garden, if it is the Clan Exalted, or the 
sculptures in a circle, if it is the Clan Extol. 

The korreds weave their hair into ani 
mated entangling ropes and snares about 
the perimeter of the party area so they do 
not have to bother establishing sentries. If a 
PC attempts to leave the party area before 
the korreds take down the ropes and 
snares, he is attacked by the rope or snare 
and must roll a successfid saving throw vs, 
paralysis or become entangled. The snares 
and ropes are AC 1, have 5 hit points, and 
move at a rate of 3, The korreds feel in 
sulted, but take no action, if the PCs change 
their mind about the party. 

A korred party, whether it is with the 
Dan Exalted or the Clan Extol, consists of 
several hours of singing, dancing, and story 
telling. The korreds insist the PCs tell tales 


about themselves and their travels. The 
korreds are relentless until each PC offers a 
story. The korreds have no way to discern if 
the PCs are telling the truth. But if the PCs' 
stories are plausible or entertaining, the 
korreds are satisfied. 

After the celebration, the korreds offer 
the PCs information about the vale. How 
ever, what the korreds reveal depends on 
the PCs' questions. The PCs are welcome 
to spend the night in the korreds' territory, 
where korred sentries watch over them. 

Korred Information 

* The Exalted One, for whom one of the 
korred clans is named, is a fine sort who 
never bothers them, but must certainly 
look in on them through magical means. 
The korreds do not know what he looks 
tike, but they know he is the recognized 
leader of the vale. 

* The Exalted One used to live in a large 
stone citadel deeper in the vale. The place 
is impressive, and undoubtedly dangerous. 
A few curious korreds tried to get in. The 
dan does not know if they were suecessfijl, 
as they never returned. The korred dan 
can give the PCs reasonably good direc 
tions to the citadel (area G). If the PCs ask 
for a guide, the korreds provide one. The 
guide takes the PCs to the citadel and then 
returns to his dan. 

* Because the Exalted One is so respected 
by the valley elves, gnomes, and tree peo 
ple living in the vale, the three groups act as 
patrols. The korreds caution the PCs to 
move quietly through the vale to avoid the 
patrols. 

* The worst patrol of all is a green dragon 
that serves the Exalted One. The korreds 
have not seen the dragon up close, and they 
have no great desire to go looking for it. 

* An unusual animal, '"which is all animals," 
moves through the vale. The animal does 
not threaten the creatures that live in the 
vale, but the korreds don't know what the 
animal would do to strangers. (They do not 
know that the animal they refer to is the 
shape-changing jakar.} 


Area C-Stone Bridge 

This bridge was created by the korred clans 
so the korreds could get across the river (to 
spy on each others' celebrations and rock 
sculptures). Other creatures and people in 
the vale also use the bridge; the korreds do 
not seem to mind. 

The unusual feature of the bridge is that it 
is sculpted from stone, and the Clan Extol 
side of the bridge is different than the Clan 
Exalted side. The dans could not agree on 
how to make the bridge, so each made half to 
their own liking. If the PCs travel near the 
bridge, read or paraphrase the following: 


As you continue your exploration of the 
vale, you notice a stone bridge across 
the Javan River. The bridge is beautiful, 
but unsettling, as one half of the bridge is 
covered with twisting columns of 
sculpted flowered vines supporting the 
ornate roof. The other half is also elabo 
rate, but has no cover; the sides of this 
section are decorated with elaborate 
carvings of many jungle animals, large 
exotic birds, and delicate flowers. 


The PCs can examine the bridge as long as 
they desire. They will have no encounters 
here unless they damage the bridge or 
make a considerable amount of noise. In 
this event, they should attract the korreds 
or one of the valley patrols. 

PCs looking at the bridge can tell that it 
was created from a single piece of stone. 
The korreds created it with several stone 
shape spells. The bridge does not radiate 
magic. It easily supports the weight of the 
PCs. 

Area D-Galeb Duhr 
Guards 

The galeb duhr living in this area created a 
narrow passage through the Barrier Peaks 
and positioned themselves on either side of 
the passage. The passage is only ten feet 
wide, big enough for animals to pass in and 
out of the vale. That is why the galeb duhr 
made the passage-so they could observe 
the animals, a favorite hobby of theirs. Oc 
casionally valley elves in search of a mer 
chant caravan to rob or searching for new 


41 











B&MMM 


sm 



 

m\ 


mm 

 

 




game will use the passage. The valley elves 
know of the galeb duhr and often stop to 
chat with them. The galeb duhr in the Bar 
rier Peaks are curious and want to keep 
track of events inside the vale. 

The galeb duhr know the Exalted One 
does not want strangers entering the vale. 
Therefore, if any humans or demihumans, 
with the exception of valley elves, come 
into the vale, the galeb duhr seal off the pas 
sage before the humans or demihumans are 
able to enter more than half-way. The spy 
from Bissel, an accomplished thief, was 
able to get into the vale through this pas 
sage because he moved silently and hid in 
the shadows of the rocky ledges. 

If the PCs opt to enter or leave the vale 
through tills passage, they have the galeb 
duhr to contend with. The galeb duhr have 
no intention of killing trespassers; they just 
have no intention of letting them wander 
freely in the vale. The galeb duhr use their 
stone shape and other abilities to keep the 
PCs out of the Exalted One's land. 

After the galeb duhr halt the PCs' prog 
ress, probably by using stone shape to box 
them in, the galeb duhr question them. 
They want to know what the strangers are 


doing here, where they are from, and their 
intentions, The galeb duhr plan to relay any 
information they pick up to the next patrol 
of valley elves. The galeb duhr do not pro 
vide the PCs with any useful information. 
The only tiling they relate is that the valley 
belongs to the Exalted One and his charges, 
and the characters are not invited to enter. 

The PCs cannot bluff their way into the 
valley, as the galeb duhr know that humans 
and demihumans lie; no matter how good 
the PCs' story is, it won't get them past the 
galeb duhr. The galeb duhr order them out 
of the Barrier Peaks, using their stone 
shape ability to push the PCs out if neces 
sary, The PCs will have to find another way 
into the valley or kill the galeb duhr, which 
will prove a difficult proposition. 

The galeb duhr only attack to kill if their 
own lives are in jeopardy, 

Galeb duhr: NA 4; AC -2; MV 6; HD 10; 

AT 2; Dmg4d6; SA spells; SD spells; MR 
20%; ALN; THACO 10 

These galeb duhr can each animate two 
boulders within 60 feet of themselves (AC 
0; MV 3; HD 9; Dmg 4d6). They can cast 


the following, once per round, as 20th-level 
wizards: move earth , stone shape, 
pass wall, transmute rock to mud, and wall 
of stone . They have no treasure. 

Area E-Magical 
Glade 

More than a decade ago the Exalted One 
chose this glade to conduct experiments us 
ing the four elements-earth, water fire, 
and air He tried to use the elements to bet 
ter himself and extend his life span, but his 
experiments did not turn out as he had 
hoped. The gnomes, valley elves, tree peo 
ple, and creatures in the vale avoid the 
place, because they have witnessed what 
happens when objects in the glade are dis 
turbed. However, there are also benefits to 
be gained by investigating the objects in the 
glade* 

The Exalted One rarely visits this place in 
person. However he scries on it at least 
once a week to make sure his subjects are 
not being harmed by the glade's effects. He 
would destroy the glade if it seemed to pose 
a threat to his subjects. He has kept it intact 


42 








thus far, believing that someday he might 
want to return to those experiments. 

Consult the diagram for the location of the 
objects in the glade. As the PCs near the 
glade, read or paraphrase the following: 


There is a large clearing ahead. The 
trees seem to form a perfect circle 
around it. The clearing itself is devoid of 
foliage. However, it has several striking 
features. In the center of the clearing is 
an oval pool ringed with green and blue 
marble-like stones. The surface of the 
pool is like glass, only the insects skim 
ming over its top break the mirrored 
surface. 

Nearby is another oval-shaped pooh 
But a fire burns across the surface of this 
one. The yellow-orange flames lick 
about ten feet into the air Beyond these 
pools is a raised bowl where something 
brown bubbles and oozes over the side; 
it looks like mud. 


from the area they will die. 

Only characters standing in what is 
marked as the thatched area on die diagram 
notice the shimmering rectangle. The Ex 
alted One experimented with moving 
through the air as a form of teleportation, and 
this ''doorway" was the result. He gave up 
on this form of transportation because he 
considered it too limiting; now he uses only 
spells and magical items. Read or paraphrase 
the following to characters inside the 
thatched section indicated on die diagram: 


The air is uncomfortably thin and dry 
here. There is no breeze, and no insects 
are present in this section of the glade. 
Still, there is something here, something 
you didn't nodce until the air thinned. A 
rectangular patch of air shimmers in 
front of you; scintillating pastel pinks and 
blues swirl within the patch. 

You are finding it hard to breathe, the 
air is too thin here. 


body, making him appear 15 years younger; 
however, beneath his skin his actual age re 
mained the same. Once he had been thus af 
fected by the mud, further applications 
proved useless. 

If a player character touches the mud 
with exposed skin, he notices that when the 
mud is brushed away, the skin beneath it is 
smoother and softer. Only sitting in the 
bowl, nearly submerging oneself in the 
mud, grants the benefit of the increased 
statistic, and the detriment of the lowered 
statistic. 

If a PC sits in the mud bowl, roll ld6: The 
number rolled corresponds to the statistic 
that is raised one point-1 "Str, 2 - Dex, 
3 = Con, 4 = Int, 5 = Wis, 6 = Chr. Next, 
roll a second d6 to determine the statistic 
that is lowered, roll again if the result is the 
same statistic that was raised. The mud 
only affects a character once, A dispel 
magic spell cast by a wizard of 8th level or 
higher has a 25% chance of destroying the 
magical properties of the mud. 


The PCs cannot find human or demihuman 
tracks in the clearing, and there are few ani 
mal tracks. If they observe the tracks, they 
can tell the animals wandered around the 
clearing, moved over to the pool of water, 
and left. However, not all of the animal 
tracks leave the pool's edge. If the PCs de 
tect for magic, they learn the entire glade 
radiates magic, including the very air. The 
glade does not radiate evil. If the PCs have 
valley elves, gnomes, tree people, or 
korreds with them, those demihumans do 
not willingly enter the glade, fearing the 
powerful magic. 

The Element of Air 

The air in the glade has a high oxygen con 
tent throughout most of the clearing. The 
thatched area on the map, however, repre 
sents where the air is very thin. Characters 
walking into the glade almost immediately 
notice the air is different, but it feels good. 
Characters staying in the glade more than 
ten minutes begin to feel giddy and euphoric 
because of the high oxygen content (but 
they are not harmed because of it). 

PCs entering the thatched area can tell af 
ter ld3 minutes that it is difficult to breathe; 
after an additional 2d4 minutes, they pass 
out for lack of oxygen. If they are not pulled 


If a PC touches the rectangular teleporta], 
which is concentrated magical air, he tingles 
all over. If the character passes a hand or 
object through the portal, he cannot see it 
emerge on the other side of the rectangle, 
as it is emerging elsewhere in the vale. 
Stepping through the teleportal transports a 
character to area H on the DJVPs map, 
Physically attacking the tele portal has no ef 
fect, as it is air. However, a dispel magic 
sped cast by a wizard of 8th level or higher 
has a 60% chance of working. The dispel 
magic removes only the teleportal; it does 
not affect the lack of oxygen in the air 
around it. 

The Element of Earth 

The bowl filled with mud radiates a strong 
aura of alteration magic. The Exalted One , 
in trying to lengthen his life span without po 
tions of longevity, magically changed the 
earth of this glade. He learned from the tree 
people that mud has a rejuvenating compo 
nent; the tree people use it in many of their 
healing treatments. He hoped it would keep 
him younger. 

Tibs mud rejuvenated him in one sense; it 
increased one of his statistics, but it also de 
creased another statistic in exchange. The 
mud also removed all wrinkles from his 


The Element of Water 

The Exalted One used this 20-foot-deep 
pool to summon water elementals, The pool 
acts as a gate between the Prime Material 
plane and the elemental plane of Water. 
Eventually, two water weirds came through 
the gate and now occupy the pool. One of 
the water weirds successfully took over the 
water elemental in the pool and is control 
ling it in a manner similar to a charm person 
spell. The only way to break the effect is to 
disrupt the water weird. The Exalted One 
does not know about the water weirds. 

The water weirds feed on all life forms, 
and as such have been forced to survive on 
insects and the small animals that come to 
the pool. PCs watching the pool's surface 
can see insects skimming along the surface 
and being snatched from beneath the water; 
it will look like a panfish is feeding off them. 

If the PCs move within five feet of the 
pool, the water weirds begin to form (it takes 
them two minutes). The surface of the pool 
remains undisturbed during this time. Once 
formed, the water weird in control of the ele 
mental remains at the bottom of the pool, di 
recting the elemental's actions. The 
remaining water weird and the elemental at 
tack any characters within reach. If the wa 
ter elemental is dispatched, the second 


43 












water weird comes to the surface to join in 
the fight. They fight to the death. 

Water Weirds (2): AC 4; MV 12; HD 
3+3; hp24,21; #AT0; Dmg nil; SA drown 
ing; SD edged weapons cause 1 point of 
damage, blunt weapons cause M damage; 
AL CE; THACQ 16 

Water weirds strike as 6-Hit Die monsters* 
These particular water weirds can reach up 
to ten feet away from the pool's edge. Any 
creature struck by the water weirds is pulled 
beneath the water unless it rolls a successful 
saving throw vs* paralyzation; if it fails, it will 
drown in ld4 minutes unless rescued. When 
damage inflicted to a water weird is equal to 
its hit points, the creature is disrupted* But it 
reforms again in two minutes* Cold spells 
slow it, fire-based spells do half or no dam 
age* A purify water spell kills it. 

Water Elemental: AC 2; MV 6, $w 18; 
HD 12; hp 65; AT 1; Dmg 5d6; SA nil; SD 
+ 2 or better weapon needed to hit; AL N; 
THAC09 

Although this elemental can move on land 
up to 60 yards away from this pool, the wa 
ter weird directs it to not leave the clearing. 
The water weird fears that the elemental 
will regain control of itself if it moves out of 
the water weird's line of sight* Out of water, 
1 point of damage is subtracted from each 
die of damage the elemental inflicts (to a 
minimum of 1 point of damage per die). 

If the PCs kill the water weird controlling 
the elemental, or dissipate it for two 
rounds, the elemental takes the opportunity 
to flee through the gate to its home plane. If 
the PCs kill the water weirds (and perhaps 
the elemental), they can search the bottom 
of the pool. 

At the bottom of the pool are the skele 
tons of small animals and a few humans or 
demihumans, 20 copper pieces, 33 silver 
pieces, 40 gold pieces, three rings, and a 
short sword. 

The sword is a short sword of quickness 
+2. One of the rings is nonmagical; it Is a 
platinum band set with a large emerald and 
worth 3,200 gp* The other rings are plain 
bands, one silver, the other bronze. The sil 
ver hand is a ring of sustenance; the bronze 
band is a ring of clumsiness T the secondary 
power of which is in visibility. 


The Element of Fire 

This pool, identical in size to the pool of wa 
ter, is filled with oil. The fire on the oils sur 
face will never bum out naturally because 
the oil never will run out* the source of the 
oil is a decanter of end/ess oil that rests at 
the bottom of the 20-foot-deep pool. The 
Exalted One set fire to the surface of the 
pool so he would have enough tight to con 
duct his experiments in the glade during the 
evening hours* He also believed the fire, 
because of its size, acted as a deterrent to 
wandering monsters. 

The fire is not magical, but the pod radi 
ates a faint aura of magic because of the de 
canter at its bottom. 

Pouring water on the pool's surface will 
not put out the fire* Throwing heavy cloaks 
or blankets over the surface will snuff out 
the flames, however, as will a pyrotechnics 
spell. Other methods could work, depend 
ing on how creative the PCs are* 

If the PCs put out the fire, they notice 
that the oil begins to overflow the pool. 
(The fire was the only reason the decanter 
did not flood the area with oil.) Because 
the oil is clear, PCs looking into the pool 
can see the decanter at the bottom. The 
only way to stop the oil flow is to retrieve 
the decanter, learn its command words, 
and stopper it, or to set the pool on fire 
again. The fire burns away the oil at a rate 
equal to the rate it pours out of the de 
canter. The command words are written in 
a magical script on the decanter's side. A 
PC wizard has a percentage chance equal 
to his Intelligence score to decipher the 
words (only one try per PC), Otherwise, a 
read magic spell will suffice* 

The decanter of endless oil operates just 
like a decanter of end/ess wafer* This de 
canter's command words are "Oleum/' 
which causes it to pour oil at a rate of one 
gallon a minute, "Fans/* which creates a 
five-foot-long stream of oil that pours out at 
a rate of five gallons per minute, and "Sca- 
tebra" which produces a geyser 20 feet 
tong that pumps out 30 gallons of oil a min 
ute* The command word to make the oil quit 
flowing, enabling the stopper to be put back 
in place, is "Mora*" 

If the PCs take the decanter with them, 
and use it to start a sizeable fire in the vale, 
the patrols and the First Protector find 
them. Starting a forest fire will bring down 


the wrath of the valley's residents and the 
Exalted One. 

The Exalted One and the Glade 

Because the Exalted One occasionally 
scries on the glade, there is a chance he no 
tices the PCs' presence. There is actually 
very little chance (1%) he would be scrying 
on the glade while the PCs are there, but if 
they have left the glade a shambles, there is 
a chance (10%) he notices something 
amiss. If the PCs are not in the vicinity, the 
Exalted One assumes one of the valley's 
residents or a wandering monster became 
too curious about the objects in the glade. 
The Exalted One contacts a patrol-roll at 
random from the patrol list-to investigate 
the matter. The patrol begins tracking the 
PCs and eventually catches up to them 
(how soon depends on the PCs' actions)* 

If the PCs stopped die fire in the oil pool, 
but didn't stop the oil, the Exalted One no 
tices, contacts the First Protector, and di 
rects her to investigate* She can stop the 
flow of oil and can locate the PCs, 

If the player characters allowed the oil to 
continue to flow, and the giade was not 
scried on by the Exalted One, a patrol 
chances upon the clearing 4dlO minutes af 
ter the PCs left. The patrol sends a mes 
senger to the First Protector, who comes to 
the giade and stops the flow. The longer it 
takes for a patrol to come upon the scene, 
the more oil spills out, thus obliterating the 
PCs' trail. II the patrol comes upon the 
scene within 20 minutes of the time the PCs 
left, they can send a runner to track the 
PCs. However, if the patrol comes upon the 
scene later than that, the PCs 1 tracks in the 
clearing are wiped out by the oil. 

Area F-A Stand of 
Tree People 

Three hours before the PCs enter this area, a 
patrol of tree people was attacked by two of 
the necromancers (Tracy Windstrider and 
Red Morgan). Most of the patrol members 
were killed, caught by Tracy's fireball spell* 
Those not killed by the spell were attacked by 
Red and killed or seriously wounded* The pair 
was in a hurry and did not bother to finish off 
the remaining patrol members. 

If the PCs come upon this area, read or 
paraphrase the following: 


44 
















The air smells acrid. There was a fire 
here recently; the smell of burning wood 
is unmistakable. Ahead you see several 
burned trees, their blackened trunks a 
stark contrast to the living forest around 
them . Thin wisps of smoke still rise from 
some of the branches. About the base of 
one of the large living trees are piled 
burned bodies. Several feet away ban 
daged, unbumed bodies lie beneath an 
other tree. 


If the characters come closer, continue with 
the following, as one of the few remaining 
tree people addresses them: 


A voice breaks the silence. 

"Away stay. Armed. Hurt you come 
closer. People [ protect. Dangerous me. 
Go. Safe." 


In his crude form of common, the spokes 
man is telling the PCs to stay away because 
he is armed and will hurt them if they come 
closer He is protecting his people and will 
fight to the death to do so. If the PCs leave, 
they will be safe. 

However, the spokesman, Simius, will 
listen to any kind of reasonable talk from the 
PCs, especially if they offer to help him. Si 
mius realizes his remaining people are badly 
hurt. He does not want to leave his people, 
as he is in the best shape to protect them. 
Simius has been waiting for another valley 
patrol to come by, but because of the erratic 
paths the patrols take, he realizes it could 
be several hours before help of that type ar 
rives. Simius knew enough not to haul the 
bodies of his seriously injured patrol mem 
bers into the trees, as moving them could 
cause more harm. 

If the PCs are not cordial, and choose to 
enter the area in a threatening manner, Si 
mius attacks them. 

There are nine dead tree people, five se 
riously injured beneath a tree, and three 
moderately injured hiding in the trees 
above. The following statistics are for the 
injured tree people. The numbers in paren 
theses are the hit points each patrol mem 
ber has remaining. 

Tree People* 2nd-Level Fighters (5): 
AC 10; MV 0 at the moment; HD 2; hp 13 


(2), 15 (2), 15 (1), 13 (0), 11 Cl); #AT 0; D 
nil; THACO nil 

Tree People, 2nd-Level Fighters (2): 

AC 7; MV 12 on ground and in trees; HD 2; 
hp 16 (4), 20 (5); MT 1 (long sword), 2 
(short bow); Dmg IdB (long sword), Ld6 
(short bow); SA nil; SD 50% concealment in 
trees, -2 bonus to AC; THACO 19 

Simius, 4th-LeveI Fighter; AC 7; MV 
12 on ground and in trees; HD 4; hp 28 (9); 
MT 1 (long sword), 2 (short bow); D IdB 
(tong sword), ld6 (short bow); SA nil; SD 
50% concealment in the trees, -2 bonus to 
AC; THACO 17 

If the PCs help the tree people , Simius is 
pleased, but he does not forget his duty- 
keeping trespassers out of the \talley of the 
Mage, Simius questions the party to find out 
what they are doing here, and informs them 
that it is his duty to make sure they leave. 
However, because they helped him, Simius 
asks the PCs to accompany him to the near 
est tree people village, where Zurt, the 
leader of the tree people will be summoned. 
He is certain Zurt will guarantee the PCs' 
safe passage out of the valley. Keep in mind 
that Simius speaks the tree people's crude 
form of common, so it should be a little diffi 
cult for the PCs to communicate with him. 

It is possible the PCs can convince Simius 
that the people who harmed him are part of a 
band out to get the Exalted One. If the char 
acters can come up with a convincing story, 
without threatening Simius and his party, Si 
mius believes them, sends the healthiest 
member of his party with them to act as a 
guide to the citadel (even if a korred is with 
the PCs), and searches for Zurt or the First 
Protector to relate the information. 

If treated well, Simius can relate-in 
crude common-the following to the PCs: 

* A member of his patrol, scouting ahead, 
spotted six robed figures heading toward 
the Exalted One's abandoned citadel. The 
man returned to Simius with the news, and 
the entire patrol started out after them. 

* Simius believes the group must have no 
ticed the scout, for two of them lagged be 
hind and surprised the tree people. 


* The smallest of the two, a woman with a 
sword, read from a piece of paper and 
caused a ball of orange fire to fly from her 
and toward the trees, where the bulk of the 
patrol was. The fire quickly burned itself 
out and killed nine of the tree people. 

* The woman also caused sparks to fly from 
her fingertips, seriously wounding others. 

* The male seemed more frightening, but 
didn't bother using magic on the remaining 
tree people; he wounded them with his staff 
and left them to be eaten by the valley's nat 
ural predators. 

* Simius knows the group should not be in 
the valley, and worse-they shouldn't be in 
the Exalted One's citadel. The Exalted One 
informed the people of the valley that the 
citadel is a place of power and destruction 
and should be avoided. 

Area G-The 
Abandoned Citadel 

A map of the citadel appears on the inside of 
this module's cover. 

The citadel was built by the mountain 
dwarves, who painstakingly followed the di 
rections of the Exalted One to mortar to 
gether massive stone blocks to form the 
building's thick exterior walls, False en 
trances and secret doors were constructed 
by only a handful of the mountain dwarves; 
and they were magically caused to forget 
where the true entrances were. The only 
windows are on the building's top floor, and 
those are nearly impossible to break be 
cause of the glassteel spells that cover 
them. 

The Exalted One also enchanted his 
home so fire-based spells would not work 
inside the walls-except in the kitchen and 
in his laboratory, where he desired to con 
duct experiments with magical fire. In addi 
tion the walls are lined with lead to prevent 
scrying from outside forces* nor can others 
use teleport spells or other magical trans 
portation get inside, A section of the citadel 
on the third level* however, is exempt from 
these restrictions. 

The Exalted One demanded his home be 
built and enchanted like this to keep out 
possible spies from the Great Kingdom or 


45 









others who might want to usurp his power 
in the valley, as well as to prevent his home 
from being damaged by fire from those who 
might slip past his defenses* The dwarves 
considered him touched with the valley fe 
ver because of his fears. However, he paid 
them well and they did not want to refuse a 
job from a wizard they believed could easily 
kill them. 

The Exalted One incorporated magical 
and mechanical traps throughout the cita 
del, as he constantly feared that someone 
could get through the exterior walls and to 
him. He lived here for more than a decade, 
conducting magical experiments, creating 
creatures such as the grists, and studying 
others such as the grivelings. He allowed 
few people into his citadel, primarily only 
the First Protector, Summerstorm, and En- 
doble; he created quarters for these people, 
whom he considered his favorites among all 
the folk of the vale. 

Eventually, however, the Exalted One 
came to look upon his citadel as a prison. He 
feared that if enemies breached his de 
fenses, they could acquire his magical se 
crets: if he didn't have the correct spells 
memorized, he could be trapped inside. 
Further, he was worried that he had be 
come too complacent within the thick walls. 

He decided he should have a home that 
could move so that it wouldn't be as easy for 
spies to locate him. Acquiring a Daems in 
stant fortress and a cubic gate helped the Ex 
alted One realize his new plan* He created a 
permanent home on another plane, where he 
continues to conduct his magical research. 
Here also he keeps most of his prized items. 
It is heavily guarded by creatures native to 
the plane* The instant fortress enables him 
to live anywhere in the vale he desires, 
which is frequently behind the waterfall at 
the base of the Barrier Peaks. 

Because of the amount of work that went 
into his old citadel, the Exalted One decided 
to leave it intact. He is certain it will serve 
as a ruse to those looking for him, and the 
defenses are still intact to harm or kill the 
Great Kingdom spies he still fears. Several 
grivelings inhabit the place, and the Exalted 
One had no desire to force them to move* 

Further* he left many of the furnishings 
intact so Summerstorm, Endoble* or the 
First Protector could stay at the citadel 
while they were on a circuit of the valley. 
The Exalted One occasionally returns to 


the place, where his old laboratory is still in 
tact, to conduct experiments he would not 
want to try on another plane. 

The Necromancers and the 

Citadel 

Through use of detection spells, the necro 
mancers eventually were able to get inside 
the citadel* They are residing on the second 
floor, where they can look down to the first 
floor and watch for the Exalted One, Four of 
them are in the building at the time the PCs 
visit-Elock, Nyeru, Albion, and Promiss* 
The other two* Tracy and Red, are by the 
waterfall, as Promiss determined that the 
Exalted One frequently is near there. 

The necromancers were injured by the 
grists and other defenses in gaining entrance 
to the citadel, but they have had time to cure 
themselves. If the PCs take no precautions 
to hide themselves when they approach the 
citadel, the necromancers see them when 
the PCs enter the first level. If the PCs ini 
tially find the correct way into the citadel the 
necromancers believe one of them is the Ex 
alted One* However, more than likely it wiU 
take the PCs a few tries to get inside , reveal 
ing to the necromancers that the PCs are 
also strangers to the valley. 

The necromancers are curious and do not 
initially attack the PCs, Block uses the crys 
tal bail in the viewing room to watch the PCs 
to see if they can handle the citadels de 
fenses and to attempt to learn their inten 
tions. 

If the PCs do not appear malicious in their 
investigation of the citadel, Nyeru appears 
to them when they go to the second floor of 
the citadel. Nyeru acts haughty, dignified, 
and attempts to pass himself off as the Ex 
alted One, See the "Second Level" section 
for more information. 

It is likely the PCs eventually will be 
forced to fight four of the necromancers in 
side the citadel. 

The Player Characters and the 
Citadel 

If the PCs have a guide to the citadel the 
guide cautions them that the building is 
dangerous-the Exalted One warned the 
people of the valley away from it* telling 
them there are defenses that would harm 
them. No guide knows what the defenses 


are, but everyone has heard that the very 
stone comes alive. If the PCs do not have a 
guide, they have to learn about the defenses 
on their own. As the PCs approach the build 
ing, read or paraphrase the following: 


The building is large and seems out of 
place in this subtropical forest. At first 
glance it appears to be made out of a 
solid block of stone, adding to its mas 
sive appearance. Ornate carvings of 
winged creatures are attached to the 
buildings, and sculpted cornices and 
raised designs are evident beginning 
about five feet from the ground. Flow 
ered vines grow up the building at ran 
dom intervals and reach nearly to the top 
floor, where a few windows are evident. 
There are no discemable lights coming 
from the windows. It is difficult to tell 
whether the building is three or four sto 
ries tall* 

The front entrance to the building has 
a large stone porch with thin, carved pil 
lars supporting a stone roof that is open 
in the center* Sunlight (or moonlight, de 
pending on when the PCs reach the cita 
del) streams through the porch's roof 
and splashes across the front steps. The 
large front door is made of carved wood. 

The yard around the building is over 
grown with a riot of ferns and wild 
flowers. Small animals scamper across 
the yard* which also contains a stone 
pool and fountain. No water spouts from 
the fountain* which appears to be a 
sculpture of an elven woman holding a 
large pitcher. 


There are no traps in the yard, as the Ex 
alted One did not want to harm the animal 
life or his valley patrols. The fountain has 
not been used for years, but the fountain ba 
sin is filled with rain water and a few small 
frogs. 

If the PCs successfully check the area for 
tracks, they can find several-days-old 
tracks of a dozen humans or demihumans (a 
valley patrol), as well as slightly fresher 
tracks of a half-dozen humans or demihu 
mans, which go up toward the house and to 
the building's side entrance. Two sets of 
tracks leave at this point and go into the for 
est. There also are tracks for a variety of 
animals. 


46 










Citadel Defenses 

Gaining entry to the citadel is a difficult 
proposition unless the characters somehow 
have the First Protector, Summerstorm, or 
Endoble with them; these NPCs know the 
correct way into the citadel 

Because the walls are so thick, it would 
take at least two passwall spells to get 
inside-and perhaps three depending on 
where the PCs choose to enter. Coming up 
underneath the building is also difficult, as 
the foundation is thicker than the wails. 

There are three apparent entrances to 
the citadel: the front door, complete with 
pillars and a large porch, is *'C" on the 
Level I Citadel map; the back door (B); and 
a side door (A), which is the real way in. 
Doors B and C are nothing more than wood 
set into stone; they do not open, and there 
is nothing but stone behind them. These 
doors also have special wards on them (see 
following), 

Each entrance is guarded by grists. 
Three grists, one to the left, one to the 
right, and one above each door, are an 
chored to the outside of the building at the 
second level. The grists fly down to attack 
when the PCs attempt to open the door at 
the first level or fly up to attack if they try to 
get inside the glassteel windows. 

The door marked A is the actual way in. 
There is a small secret door within the 
door; attempting to open the larger false 
door releases a glass capsule of concen 
trated poison, which automatically breaks, 
releasing an unusually strong type M poison 
into the air. Characters within a ten-foot ra 
dius of the door must roll saving throws vs. 
poison, Those failing suffer 20 points of 
damage and lose 3 points of Strength for 
ld!2 minutes; those succeeding receive 5 
points of damage and lose 3 points of 
Strength for IdG minutes. 

The poison capsules are held by a com 
plex mechanical apparatus. There are 12 
capsules loaded into the mechanism. 
Therefore* a party could touch the door 12 
times and be affected by the poison each 
time, or a thief would have to disarm the 
trap 12 times to make the door safe. 

In addition, if characters at door A do not 
immediately go to the secret door* which is 
located near the large door's hinges, the 
three grists located above this door fly 
down to attack. 


The ward on door B causes Eyard 's black 
tentacles to spring from the door. The 12 
tentacles* which are AC 4 and last for 12 
rounds, have a ten-foot reach. Each tenta 
cle has 12 hit points. A victim of the tentacle 
must roll a saving throw vs. spell to avoid 
being grabbed. If the saving throw is suc 
cessful, the victim suffers ld4 points of 
damage; if unsuccessful, the victim re 
ceives 2d4 points of damage and 3d4 points 
of damage on each successive round until 
the tentacle is destroyed or it reaches its 
12-round duration. 

The ward on door C acts as a vampiric 
touch spell. Each time a character touches 
the door, or touches it via an object such as 
a sword or staff, the character loses 6d6 hit 
points. The hit points can he regained by 
normal or magical healing. The three grists 
near this door fly to the attack when the 
door is touched. 

There are additional defenses inside the 
budding; these are listed later in the text 
next in the sections describing specific ar 
eas on the map. 

Grists (3 at each door): MV 9, FI 12 (B); 
HD3 + 4; hp42 each; #AT4; Dmg Id8/ld8/ 
IdlO/ldS; SA fear gaze* snatch; SD +1 or 
better magical weapon needed to hit; MR 
20%; AL N; THACO 12 

If the PCs cut open a grist, they find the fol 
lowing in each one; 2d6 electrum pieces, 
2d4 gold pieces, and IdG platinum pieces. 

In addition to the obvious doors, there is a 
secret door that elves can find (by search 
ing) on 1-3 on a d6, and half el ves can find on 
1-2. The secret door is not as well con 
cealed as most, but the characters might 
believe that shifting stone through the years 
could have made it easier to spot (the 
dwarves were told to construct it to look 
like the settling foundation made it easier to 
notice). This secret entrance is filled with 
traps. The rooms past this secret door are 
marked on the map with Roman numerals to 
differentiate them from the rest of the cita 
del's rooms. 

Inside the Citadel 

Through the Wrong Secret Door 

If the PCs choose this entrance, which 
leads to nothing more than a series of death 


traps, they notice that the secret door is not 
locked* but it is trapped. The trap, which 
was created to make intruders believe they 
had actually found the correct entrance, is a 
poison capsule mechanism similar to that on 
door A. However* this poison is type L, and 
it only catches characters within a five-foot 
radius of the dour. Those who succeed on 
their saving throws suffer no damage; those 
who fail receive 10 points of damage. 

Read or paraphrase the following after 
the PCs have opened the door to corridor I. 


The corridor ahead is dimly lit by an unu 
sual moss growing on the walls. The cor 
ridor extends about 30 feet, and it ends 
in a solid wall. 


PCs walking on the pressure-sensitive floor 
of corridor I release the contact poison 
(type K) that is stored in the ceiling. Unless 
the PCs devise a method to stop the pow 
dered poison from falling, they must roll 
saving throws vs. poison for every five feet 
they walk down the corridor. Those suc 
ceeding on their saving throws receive no 
damage, while those failing their saving 
throws suffer 5 points of damage, If the PCs 
run down the corridor, they need to make 
only three saving throws. 

If the PCs check for secret doors at the 
end of the corridor, they can easily locate 
the door, which swings inward to reveal 
corridor !L 


This corridor also is lit by the glowing 
moss. It extends forward about 20 feet 
and turns to the Jeff, extending another 
60 feet and ending in a large brass door; 
there are ornate, wooden doors to the 
left and right of the brass door The 
brass door is polished; it has designs of 
small lizards and butterflies in its center, 
and it glows warmly in the light of the 
glowing moss. 


If the PCs continue all the way down the 
corridor without taking precautions* the 
lead character(s) falls into the pit trap just 
before the three doors* suffering IdG points 
of damage. The pit trap extends across the 
entire corridor, is five feet wide, and is ten 
feet deep. Covering the bottom of the pit is 
a colony of green slime that has not eaten in 
a long time. 


47 









Green slimes (4): AC 9; MV 0; HD 2; hp 
10 each; If AT nil; SA attaches to living flesh, 
turning the victim into green slime in ld4 
minutes; SD not affected by weapons and 
spells, except for cure disease t which kills 
it; AL N; THAC0 19 

III. This ten-foot-square section of the cor 
ridor is also trapped, but this trap is linked 
to the wooden door on the west side of the 
corridor. When the door latch is turned, two 
stone blocks in the ceiling fall down on ev 
eryone standing in this area in front of the 
door. The victims suffer 4dl0 points of dam 
age. This trap has not been triggered by in 
truders before, as no previous intruder got 
past than the green slime. The door to the 
west is a false door It cannot be opened, 
and there is nothing but stone behind it. 

The brass door to the north is not 
trapped, but the entire 10 f x 10 f room be 
yond it is a pit trap. This trap is pressure 
sensitive and requires 250 pounds of weight 
to set it off-more than one player charac 
ter The walls of the room are covered in 
chalky frescoes of gnomes and valley elves. 
There are words written in an old dialect of 
elvish throughout the frescoes. The words 
are nonsensical but they are deliberately 
too small to be read from the doorway; they 
are simply a lure to get intruders in the 
room and into the pit. The pit is 20 feet 
deep; those falling into it suffer 2d6 points of 
falling damage. In addition, the bottom of 
the pit is covered with dirty, rusty iron 
spikes. Each person falling into the pit is 
struck by 3d4 spikes, suffering ld4 points of 
damage for each spike. Victims struck by 
the spikes must roll successful saving 
throws vs. poison or contract a disease 
from the dirt and rust that is in their 
wounds. Those who fail their saving throws 
lose 1 point of Strength per day until their 
Strength reaches 0 and they die. The dis 
ease can be negated by a cure disease spell. 

The wooden door to the east is locked but 
not trapped. The door only triggers the 
trap. When the door is opened, it negates 
the special paralysis spell that was placed on 
the two brown puddings that cover the floor 
of the room . Once the door is open, a detect 
traps spell will not recognize the floor as a 
trap. 

It takes four minutes for the brown pud 
dings to come out of the paralysis, during 
this time they stay dormant. Prodding the 


"floor" will not get the puddings to move 
during the four minutes. Because the hides 
of the brown puddings are tough and the 
creatures are stretched thin over the floor, 
the PCs could believe they are walking on 
dirt or clay. The brown puddings attack af 
ter four minutes. 

To lure intruders into this room, the Ex 
alted One placed shields, bearing the em 
blems of Oerth lands, on aU the walls. The 
emblems represent (from right to left 
around the room): Johrase. of the Bandit 
Kingdoms; Tiger Nomads; Duchy of Tenh; 
County of Sunndi; Ket; luz; Rockroost, of 
the Bandit Kingdoms; Reyhu, of the Bandit 
Kingdoms; Valley of the Mage (a jet black 
shield with a flaming comet moving across 
it); Duchy of Umst; Grosskopf, of the Ban 
dit Kingdoms; Dimire, of the Bandit King 
doms; and the Great Kingdom. The Valley 
of the Mage emblem is on a shield, + 2, 
which the Exalted One left there to symbol 
ize that his country is greater than the oth 
ers represented in this room, The Great 
Kingdom emblem is on a shield -1, missile 
attractor ; Consult the Grey hawk Boxed Set 
to describe the emblems on each shield. 

Brown Puddings (2); AC 5; MV 6; HD 
II; hp 60, 55; #AT 1; Dmg 5d4; SA dis 
solves leather and wood in a single round, 
regardless of magical pluses; SD nil; AL N: 
THAC0 9 

These brown puddings cannot eat through 
stone, which made the Exalted One confi 
dent they would not be likely to get into the 
main citadel. 

If the characters explore this section of 
the citadel for secret doors, they are likely 
to find the doors that lead to rooms IV and 
V, The secret doors are locked, but not 
trapped, 

IV. Just beyond the secret door is a 20-foot- 
deep pit trap, the sides of which are ringed 
with sharpened spikes. Characters falling in 
the pit must roil successful saving throws 
vs. paralyzation to avoid hitting the spikes 
on the side; those who are successful suffer 
2d6 points of damage from the fall only; 
those who fail their saving throws receive 
5d6 total points of damage from the fall and 
the spikes. 


This room has walls painted a pastel 
green. On the walls are evenly spaced 
portraits of men in fine clothes. There is 
a small brass plaque beneath each of the 
paintings and a small patch of the lumi 
nous moss above each one to help show 
it off. In the center of the far portion of 
the room, which has larger portraits, is 
an ornamental throw rug. The room is 
spotless. 


The room is spotless because no one has 
disturbed it since the Exalted One hung the 
paintings here, and the stonework is so 
tight that dirt and dust do not seep into the 
rooms, The portraits are of Krimeah's rela 
tives and associates who once lived in the 
Great Kingdom (he has outlived nearly all of 
them}, although the brass plaques beneath 
each painting do not identify them as such. 
There are 11 portraits, and the plaques be 
neath them read: A True Scoundrel; Mur 
derous Thief; Cheater; Scum of the 
Kingdom; Child Stealer; Ruefully Regal 
Despot; Well-Dressed Lecherous Lord; 
Slanderous Statesman; My Favorite Sot; 
Inefficient, Inept Kingdom Mage; and 
Beautiful, Dangerous Deceiver. 

The paintings are a few decades old, awk 
wardly large and are each worth 50 gp. The 
frames are coated with a contact poison 
(type K, those who fail saving throws vs. 
poison suffer 5 points of damage). The Ex 
alted One considered this trap fitting, as he 
believed those pictured had venomous per 
sonalities. 

The large rug is a rug of smothering cre 
ated by the Exalted One. It needs no com 
mand words. The rug wraps itself around 
any creature stepping on it, suffocating the 
victim in ld4 +2 minutes. The rug is AC 8 
and cannot be destroyed until it suffers 18 
points of damage. However, casting hold 
plant , animate object , or wish will get it to 
stop smothering its victim for ld8 minutes. 
Creatures wrapped in the nig suffer the 
same damage the rug does* 

The secret door in this room is opened by 
moving the portrait of "My Favorite Sot" 

V 

The walls of this large stone room are 

painted an olive green. Luminous moss 


48 










on the ceiling casts a glow on the pol 
ished wooden floor. There are no paint 
ings on the wall, but at the far end of the 
room a green, blue, and gold tapestry 
hangs. 


The floor of this room is slightly sloped 
downward to the north. But because of the 
lighting in this room, it would take a dwarf 
or someone rolling an object into the room 
to notice it. The traps in this room are three 
regenerating wards set in the floor of the 
room that go off whenever anyone walks 
over them. The wards are indicated on the 
map by circles. 

Ward A acts as a suggestion spell, urging 
those who set it off to walk toward the far 
end of the room, in effect setting off the 
other two wards. Those who set off the first 
ward must roll successful saving throws vs, 
spells or be compelled to follow its direc 
tions, Those who save can also walk to the 
far end of the room if they desire, but under 
their own power. 

The second ward, B, acts as a grease spell, 
which is intended to cause intruders to slide to 
the third ward, C, whkh triggers an Evard's 
black tentacles spell. The 12 tentacles, which 
are AC 4 and have a duration of 12 rounds, 
have a ten-foot reach. Each tentacle has 12 hit 
points. Each target of a tentacle must roll a 
successful saving throw vs. spell, with a -3 
penalty because of sliding into the ward, to 
avoid being grabbed. If the saving throw is 
successful, the victim receives ld4 points of 
damage; if unsuccessful, the victim suffers 
2d4 points of damage, is grabbed, and re 
ceives 3d4 points of damage on each succes 
sive round until the tentacle is either 
destroyed or dissipates. 

The only thing of value in this room is the 
5' x 8' tapestry, which is worth 250 gp. 

Player characters continuing to search 
the trapped section of the citadel cannot 
progress beyond this area. Eventually they 
should realize this entrance has not taken 
them far inside the building and they should 
look for another entrance. 

The Correct Secret Door 

1. Entrance Hallway 


The secret door swings open to reveal a 
ten-fool-wide passage that extends 30 


feet and ends in a solid stone wall. The 
floor, walls, and ceiling of this passage 
are stone. 


The Exalted One installed two final regen 
erating wards to harm those who weren't 
supposed to be in his citadel The first 
ward, marked "A," causes those who walk 
across it to be subject to a blindness spell 
The second ward, marked "B" releases a 
deafness sped. The spells are released as 
many times as a character or characters 
walk across the wards. Characters who 
trigger the wards must roll saving throws 
vs. spell to avoid these effects, A dispel 
magic sped can negate either the blindness 
or deafness effect to one character. Charac 
ters can avoid setting off the wards by not 
walking on the floor. The Exalted One and 
his companions usually levitated across the 
passage, The necromancers discovered the 
glyphs by setting them off. By casting dispel 
magic spells, they were able to negate the 
handicaps. 

The secret door at the end of the passage 
can be detected by elves, half-elves, or by 
other characters who tap on the walls. The 
southern wall, which ends the corridor, is 
not made of as thick of stone as the other 
walls. Examining the western half of this 
wall about half way down, reveals a small 
key hole. The secret door has a resetting 
lock, but it is not trapped. It is a complex 
lock, and a thief attempting to open it suf 
fers a 20 percent penalty to his open locks 
roil. When the door is opened, a soft bell a 
magical effect, rings throughout the com 
plex to alert the occupants that they have 
visitors. The only way to avoid the bell go 
ing off is to cast a silence spell on the door 
before it is opened. 

Fires do not bum inside the citadel, ex 
cept for in the laboratory and in a small area 
in the kitchen. Also, wizards cannot cast 
fire-based spells. 

2. Foyer 


Cushioned benches sit on the eastern 
and western ends of this large entrance 
room. The stone walls are painted a 
warm yellow and are decorated with 
paintings of forest scenes. Hanging from 


the center of the room, illuminating it, is 
a single lit candle. The light from the can 
dle reflects off the polished green marble 
floor. Almost directly across from where 
you entered is a carved walnut door with 
a brass handle. 


The candle's wick has a continual light spell 
ca=.i on it. If PCs search the room they can 
find dirt on one of the benches and on the 
floor near it. This is where one of the necro 
mancers sat while his companions removed 
the blindness and deafness affecting him. 
The walnut door is not locked or trapped. 

3. Receiving Room 


This room is a little larger than the one 
you just left. It too has a green marble 
floor and yellow walls. The room is lit by 
a single candle on a sconce next to a 
carved walnut door in the southern wall 
The ceiling of this room is a glossy 
green, nearly a mirror of the floor. You 
can see your reflections in it. The room 
has no furnishings. 


The ceiling of the room is made of a very 
thick green glass with a glassted spell on it 
(it radiates magic if such is detected for). 
Those looking up through the glass see 
their reflections. However, those in the 
room above (room 24) who look down can 
see who is in the room. The Exalted One* 
First Protector, or other occupants of the 
citadel would come to the room above when 
the alarm bell went off to learn the identity 
of the visitors. The necromancers have 
learned to use the room in the same fashion 
and can watch the PCs. The candle by the 
door has a continual light spell on the wick. 

The door room opens into a corridor that 
leads to rooms 4-14 and to the stairs that go 
up to the second level The corridor's floor 
is of black marble slabs set on top of stone. 
The walls are painted a dark orange and 
have no decorations. The corridor is softly 
lit by luminous moss that is attached to the 
ceiling every 30 feet. 














4* Kitchen 


Steel counter tops dully glisten in the 
light of the luminous moss that dings to 
the ceiling. A stove loaded with logs sits 
in the center of the roof; counter tops 
ring it. Cabinets with glass doors are 
above the counters; inside are colorful 


china dishes, cups, and crystal goblets. 
At one end of the room, a stone-and- 
steel basin sits, filled with water from a 
pump attached to it. Under the basin and 
the counters are metal-dr a wo red cabi 
nets. As you take in the scene, a small 
dark, gray slate floats in the air toward 
you. The slate reads "Your Order, 
Please," A piece of chalk dangles on a 
string at the side of the slate* 


A permanent, semi-intelligent unseen 
servant acted as the chef for the citadel 
when it was regularly occupied-except 
when the First Protector was visiting (she 
prepared meals for the Exalted One), The 


servant still approaches anyone entering 
the kitchen and hands them a chalkboard. 
Requests are filled to the best of the unseen 
servant's ability. However, only a few bags 
of bug-ridden flour, a tin of salt and pepper, 
dried fruit, dried meat, and a tialf dozen bot 
tles of old whiskey remain in the kitchen. 
When the Exalted One makes his rare visits 
here, he brings his own food. 

If the PCs place an order for food, the 
servant will mix together these remaining 
ingredients, no matter what the order is, as 
it has nothing else to cook with and has 
forgotten many of its cooking skills. What 
ever it makes tastes rather vile. If the PCs 
watch the meal being prepared, they see a 
cabinet open and a large mixing bowl move 
from it to the counter. This is followed by 
the flour, dried meat, dried fruit, whiskey 
and salt and pepper, which are unceremoni 
ously dumped into the bowl and stirred with 
a large wooden spoon that materializes 
from another cabinet. 

After the mixture is roughly and quickly 
stirred, the bowl is slowly carried to a 
stove, which the invisible chef lights with 
flint and steel. After the mixture cooks for 
ten minutes, the chef dishes it out on plates 


that are retrieved from the cabinets-one 
place setting for each PC, The dishes are 
placed on a large silver trav, and the servant 
carries the tray to room 7 (the dining room) 
and pulls out the chairs to help seat the 
PCs. 

If at any time the PCs interrupt the ser 
vant, it will start its task over again until no 
more food remains in the kitchen. When the 
food is exhausted, the servant patiently 
waits for more to be brought to it. 

This unseen servant is destroyed if it suf 
fers 6 points of damage from an area-effect 
spell (weapons do not harm it), or if a dispel 
magic spell is cast on it. 

The cabinets with glass doors contain a 
cliina service for ten, including silverware. 
There also are 30 crystal goblets and ten 
cliina cups. The cabinets with metal doors 
contain cooking pots, bowls, pans, serving 
trays, assorted cooking utensils, the old 
food and whiskey mentioned earlier, and 
logs for the stove. The cabinet beneath the 
sink contains cleaning rags, ajar with gritty 
cleanser, a jar with a concentrated soap for 
washing dishes, two mops and a pail. The 
pump at the sink pumps well water from a 
reservoir beneath the citadel. The water in 


50 



















the sink is rank, but any water pumped up 
by the PCs is cool and good. The five-foot 
area around the stove is the only place on 
this level where fire can burn, 

5. Storage Room 

There is no light source in this room, 
though some light seeps in from the lumi 
nous moss in the hallway. If the PCs want a 
better light source they will have to provide 
it* The eastern and western walls are taken 
up by wooden shelves, all of which are 
empty. The room smells musty and has 
small spider webs in it. At one time this 
room held foodstuffs for the kitchen. Player 
characters carefully inspecting the room 
can find traces of flour and bits of dried idani 
fruit* 

6* Storage Room 

The door to this room is locked. The Ex 
alted One locked it so that if he brought tree 
people guests here, they would not see how 
he was using their gifts. The room lacks a 
light source. It is filled with ebonwood 
chairs and tables, which the tree people 
made for the Exalted One. There are 12 
hand-carved chairs stacked up against the 
northern wall. Three hand-carved rocking 
chairs are spaced along the western wall 
The eastern wall is taken up by eight small 
tables or nightstands, three low, long ta 
bles, and one large dining room table. The 
furniture is well made and would bring a 
good price in a city. 

7 . Dining Room 


A dozen black wooden chairs ring an ob 
long matching table in the center of this 
room. The furniture is covered with in 
tricate carvings of leaves, flowers, and 
birds. The room is lit by a candle that sits 
in the middle of the table. On the table in 
front of each chair is an off-white woven 
place mat. The material used in the place 
mats Is similar to the material covering 
the cushions of the chairs. 


The wick of the candle has a continual light 
speU on it. The furniture in this room, more 
elaborately carved than the furniture in the 
storage room, was left behind by the Ex 


alted One because he has plenty of the 
ebonwood furniture in his new home. He 
also wanted to leave the First Protector a 
nice place to dine when she stopped over at 
the citadel. The furniture would be worth 
several hundred gold pieces in a city. 

8. Closets 

These six areas are closets, all with locked 
doors. The closets on the southern side 
were used for the guest rooms (9, 10, and 
11), which the grivelings have taken over. 
Those on the northern side were used as 
storage. The Exalted One liked his citadel 
clean and did not want objects laying 
around. If the PCs examine the contents of 
the closet, they can find in the southern 
closets a dozen bars of soap, six towels, 
three soft robes, three pairs of slippers, and 
three feather pillows* En the northern 
closets they can find brooms, pails, cleaning 
solvent in ceramic jars, rugs, a continual 
light candle, aprons, and a feather duster. 

8 a. Dumb Waiter 

Tliis serves as a dumb waiter to bring food 
and supplies from one level to the next* The 
doors to the dumb waiter are locked on each 

level. 

Griveling Guests 

Seven grivelings, whose relatives used to 
guard the citadel, have made their home 
here, claiming rooms 9, 10, and 11. The 
grivelings frequently wander about the cita 
del and the surrounding area and look for 
ward to the infrequent stops of the First 
Protector, Summers tor m, or Endoble. 
These grivelings were also witness to three 
visits by the Exalted One; he looked differ 
ent during each visit, so they do not know 
what he really looks like. However, during 
each visit he gave them silver and gold 
statues, which they added to the furnish 
ings they created in their quarters. 

The Exalted One told the grivelings to 
confine their living space to that section of 
the citadel, although they could wander 
throughout the entire building. He re 
quested they continue living in the building 
as they serve as an added defense to any in 
truders. 

The grivelings are aware of the four men 


upstairs, one of which they are certain is the 
Exalted One because he looked like a wiz 
ard and gave them a pair of golden statues 
{candlestick holders) when they held out 
hands for a gift. The grivelings also are 
aware of the PCs in the building, hut they 
initially believe the PCs are supposed to be 
here-otherwise they are certain the Ex 
alted One upstairs would have taken care of 
them by now. 

A griveling approaches the PCs as they 
move toward the grivelings 1 section of the 
citadel by extending a hand and a head out 
through the wall. The head has the visage of 
Myeru Darkspring. If a PC puts something 
metallic in the outstretched hand, the 
grivelings are satisfied that the PCs are 
supposed to be there. If the PCs do not 
present a gift, the griveling spokesman asks 
them (in common) to state their business in 
the citadel. Any reply other than saying 
they are here at the invitation of the Exalted 
One results in the PCs being asked to leave. 

The grivelings would rather handle the 
matter peacefully than through force, but if 
the PCs refuse to go, the grivelings attack 
at the first good opportunity. The grivelings 
attack by moving into a stone wall behind 
their quarry and coming through the wall to 
surprise them. The grivelings move 
through stone as easily as the PCs move 
through air. 

Two of the grivelings in the group speak a 
smattering of common, but it is difficult for 
the PCs to get information from them. The 
grivelings are curious, wanting to know 
about the PCs and why they are visiting 
with the Exalted One; they are also tight- 
lipped, not wanting to divulge anything the 
Exalted One might consider secret and im 
portant. ff the PCs ask about the Exalted 
One, the grivelings become intensely suspi 
cious, as they believed the PCs were here 
at his request. The grivelings, who know 
''the Exalted One" is upstairs, ask the PCs 
where to find him* If the PCs' reply is any 
thing other than upstairs, the grivelings ask 
them to leave immediately. 

The grivelings also ask the PCs to leave if 
they enter room 9. 10, or 11, as the grivel- 
ings enjoy their privacy and are certain the 
Exalted One would not want his guests 
wandering in others' private chambers. In 
fact, unless the PCs offer an explanation as 
to why they are here, the grivelings be 
come suspicious of them and send a repre- 


51 








sentative upstairs through the stone walls 
to inform "the Exalted One" (Nyeru) that 
his guests are poking around where they 
shouldn't be. Tf the PCs threaten the grivel- 
ings, they attack to defend themselves and 
their home. 

During any attack, only six of the grivel- 
ings fight. The seventh moves through the 
stone walls to the second level where it will 
inform "the Exalted One" that intruders 
are on the level below. "The Exalted One" 
already knows about the intruders, but he 
thanks the griveiing for the information. 
Each grivelings fights until it is down to x k 
of its normal hit points, at which point it re 
treats into the stone floor to recuperate. 

The grivelings do not attack the PCs after 
they have retreated. They do, however, fol 
low the PCs' progress through the citadel 
so they can report their findings to the Ex 
alted One. 

Grivelings (7): AC 2 (-1 in stone); MV 9, 
12 through stone; HD 5 + 2; hp 41, 40* 35, 
32, 28, 22, 20; #AT 2; Dmg Id8/ld8; SA 
spells; SD spells, +1 or better weapons 
needed to hit; AL NG; THACO 14 

9, 10, 11. Griveiing Suite 

Each of these rooms, devoid of regular fur 
niture, has been fashioned by the grivelings 
to fit their lifestyles. Through many months 
of work, the seven grivelings cast rock to 
mud and mud to rock spells to form in Room 

9 a half-dozen sculptures like they wit 
nessed in the korred rock garden. In Room 

10 they made chairs and a table made of 
rock like in the Exalted One's dining room. 
In Room II they crafted stalactites and 
stalagmites like in their previous cave home 
in the Barrier Peaks. 

These creations are a combination of 
granite from the Barrier Peaks, marble 
from the floors in each of the three rooms, 
and stone from part of the foundation be 
neath these rooms. They have made the 
gold and silver statues presented by the Ex 
alted One part of the stone sculptures in 
Room 9. The statues include the candle 
stick holders from Nyeru (150 gp), a solid 
silver statue of a porpoise riding a wave 
(300 gp), a gold and silver vase {180 gp), 
and a gold pitcher inlaid with platinum de 
signs (450 gp). Anyone who attempts to 


steal the gold and silver statues is furiously 
attacked by the grivelings. 

12. Library 

The door to this room has a wizard lock 
spell cast on it. The necromancers have not 
yet attempted to enter this room, learning 
from Promiss that something potentially 
harmful is inside. Rather than risk further 
danger to themselves and expose to the 
grivelings that Nyeru is not the Exalted 
One, they left the room and ventured up 
stairs. They plan to get into the room later 
through the grivelings by somehow charm 
ing them and having them turn a portion of 
the rock wall to mud. The necromancers 
will be pleased if the PCs get inside the 
room and deal with whatever is harmful. 
(The dangerous items are books.) 

To get in, the PCs must successfully force 
the door, which brings the grivelings down 
on them unless the grivelings are heavily 
damaged, or use a knock spell, which does 
not draw the suspicion of the grivelings. 


The room is immense, about 1(K) feet 
long. Shelves that reach to the top of the 
ten-foot-high ceiling line each wall. Many 
of the shelves are empty; still, there are 
hundreds of books here. In the center of 
the room is a bare ebonwood table with a 
glowing candle on it. The candle, similar 
to those in other rooms, illuminates 
nearly the entire room. A large ebon- 
wood chair at the table appears to have 
been carved from a single piece of wood. 
Designs of vines, leaves, and mush 
rooms are etched into the arms and legs 
of the chair. 

The room smells musty-the odor of 
old books and of standing empty. A fine 
film of dust seems to cover everything in 
the room, including the black marble 
floor, which looks somehow darker be 
cause of the shadows cast by the book 
cases. A door in the southern end of the 
room is also black, probably made of the 
same material as the table and chair. 


There are 400 books in this room, about 
one-fifth of the Exalted One's library. The 
other books, those he considered more 
valuable and more useful to him, are kept at 
his new home. About 100 books are histo 
ries of various countries: the Great King 


dom, March of Bissel, County of Urnst, the 
Shield Lands, City of Irongate, Town of 
Highfolk, Kingdom of Furyondy, the Wild 
Coast, County of Ulek, and Sterich. An 
other 100 are about great battles, generals, 
and military histories of the lands through 
out Gerth. The Exalted One read all he 
wanted to about the histories of the lands 
and, growing bored with the subject matter, 
decided to leave those books here. 

Most of the rest of the books are about 
the flora and fauna of this section of Oerth, 
detailing medicinal uses, how to prepare 
them as food, and how to identify poisonous 
ones. The others are basic alchemical 
tomes, books on heraldry; composing mu 
sic, improving painting techniques, and 
identifying various currencies. Some of the 
books are more than 50 years old, and each 
book ranges in value from 1 to 10 gp. 

In addition to these mundane books, 
there are two identical magical tomes that 
the Exalted One acquired with other items 
in a treasure horde. He had the foresight to 
have these books identified before opening 
them, and upon the identification he imme 
diately decided he wanted nothing to do 
with them. He decided to keep them here 
so they would pose no threat to himself or 
the First Protector. Further, he believed if 
by some chance his citadel was broken into, 
the intruders could help themselves to 
these two books, which radiate magic when 
a detect magic spell is cast. 

The magical books are vacuous 
grimoires , and any character opening a 
book and reading even a single symbol in 
side is subject to the magical effects. 

Other items of interest can be found in 
the room. Affixed to the underside of the 
chair by a piece of orange wax is a key to 
Room 14. In one of the history books of the 
Great Kingdom is a detailed pencil sketch of 
a young boy (Krimeah at age 9). Inside a 
heraldry book are several pencil sketches of 
the Valley of the Mage shield design and 
notes about it. The mage chose a flaming 
fireball against a black background because 
one of his names is the Black One, and he 
perceives magic, such as fireballs, as a 
show of strength. Behind the military his^ 
tory books of Furyondy are two carved 
wooden wands. All the charges were ex 
pended from the wands, and the Exalted 
One, who forgot where he put them, did not 
bother to recharge them. 


52 









13. The Exalted Study 


An ebonwood desk, the legs of which are 
carved to resemble serpents, dominates 
the room. The room has no magical can 
dles to illuminate it, and the gray walls 
make the place seem somber and dark. 
A black leather couch, coated with dust, 
rests against the southern walk An 
ebonwood bookcase, containing only 
knickknacks and trinkets, leans against 
the eastern wall. Only the western wall, 
which has an ebonwood door on it, is 
adorned. A picture of a female draw in 
flowing green robes hangs from it. The 
woman in the picture is young for a 
drow. Her hair cascades down around 
her small shoulders, and her lips wear a 
faint smile. 


The portrait is of the First Protector; it was 
painted by the Exalted One, although the 
signature on the painting reads "The Black 
One " The Exalted One has others, which 
he considers better, and he left this one 
here. The knickknacks and trinkets on the 
bookshelf include a dozen small ebonwood 
carvings of valley animals done by the tree 
people, a brass candle snuffer (useless in 
this citadel where fire cannot bum), a small 
bronze goblet, a pair of dusty, linen gloves, 
and a ceramic jar filled with fragrant oil to 
scent the room. The desk has two drawers, 
both of which are locked. The top drawer 
contains five diamond-tipped quills, each 
worth about 90 gp, and two stoppered vials 
of brown ink. The bottom drawer contains 
several sheets of blank paper, three blank 
scrolls, and two ceramic jars, one red, the 
other green. The red jar contains a potron of 
black sight ; the green jar contains dust of 
sneezing and choking. Anyone who opens 
the green jar and examines its contents is 
subject to the effect of the dust. 

The door to Room 14 is locked. The key 
from Room 12 will open it. If the key or a 
knock spell is not used, a bell chimes on the 
other side of the door. This triggers the 
stone golem that guards the contents of the 
room. The Exalted One stored some of his 
wealth, what he considers spare change, in 
this room. He directed the golem to attack 
anyone who does not look like the Exalted 
One (a particular visage) or the First Pro 
tector who attempts to take the treasure or 


to attack anyone in the other room after the 
bell on the door rang. 

Slone golem: AC 5: MV 6; HD 14; hp 60; 
tfAT 1; Dmg 3d8; SA casts slow spell once 
every other round upon an opponent within 
10'; SD + 2 or better weapons to hit; AL N; 
THACO7 

There are no furnishings in the room; the 
only objects inside are the golem and the 
treasure. The treasure, coated with contact 
poison (type L), consists of 2,500 gold 
pieces, 1,000 silver pieces, 300 platinum 
pieces, a life-size ebonwood carving of the 
First Protector, an ebonwood carved 
throne, a two-foot-tall gold vase worth 450 
gp, a continual light candle, and a china tea 
pot decorated with gold designs worth 100 
gp* 

Stairway 

The stairs leading up to the second level are 
individual stone blocks mortared together. 
If there is a dwarf among the PCs, that 
character can tell that it is dwarven work 
manship. A thick orange carpet covers the 
middle of the stairs; it is coated with a thin 
layer of dust. If the PCs examine the car 
pet, they find footprints leading upstairs. 

If the PCs have been annoying to the 
grivelings or fought them earlier and forced 
them to retreat, one or two grivelings move 
into the stonework of the steps and bring 
their hands up through the steps to trip the 
PCs who are halfway up. A PC tripped by a 
griveling in this manner must roll a success 
ful Dexterity check (vs, half of their Dexter 
ity score) on id20 to avoid falling, Those 
falling suffer ldB points of damage. The 
grivelings continue to attempt to trip the 
PCs, using the stone stairs for cover. If in 
jured, they retreat and follow the PCs" 
progress through the stonework. See the 
earlier section of grivelings for more infor 
mation about their tactics. 

Level Tw o 

Nyeru Darkspring and his associates have 
been waiting for the player characters, first 
observing their entrance from above Room 
3. Nyeru, in some of the Exalted One's 
robes, which he look from Level Three, 


and now without a beard, appears to the 
PCs when they reach the top of the stairs. 
Nyeni, who had cast detect invisibility to lo 
cate any hiding PCs, tries to pass himself off 
as the Exalted One in an effort to get infor 
mation from the PCs. He hopes they have 
been worn down by w T hatever force was in 
the library downstairs and by the grivelings. 

He tells them he did not join them earlier 
as he was sleeping and was awakened a few 
moments ago when he heard noise coming 
from downstairs. If the player characters 
believe his charade, he invites them to sit 
with him in Room 15 where he quizzes them 
about how they got into his citadel, if they 
have damaged it (in which case he asks 
them for compensation), and what they are 
doing in the Valley of the Mage. If they ex 
plain about the threat of the necromancers, 
he asks them for details; he wants to know 
as much as possible about what the PCs 
know about his group. He also asks the PCs 
how they knew to find him here and if they 
first looked anywhere else (hoping to find 
other possible leads on the Exalted One's 
location). During the questioning, Nyeru is 
carefully looking the PCs over in an attempt 
to gauge their strengths and determine who 
are the spellcasters-these he plans to deal 
with first. 

When he is confident he has gained all the 
information possible about the group, he at 
tempts to split them up, asking two or three 
of the PCs if they will go downstairs and 
bring up a serving tray and some goblets 
from the kitchen. If they refuse , he and the 
necromancers strike anyway. If the PCs 
comply, he waits until he hears them go 
down the stairs and then strikes the PCs 
who remain with him. The necromancers 
are hiding nearby and strike when they bear 
his verbal signal, "I have the finest wine in 
the valley,*" The other PCs are attacked 
when they come back upstairs. 

If, however, the PCs did not believe 
Nyeru's impersonation of the Exalted One 
and prepare to attack immediately, he and 
the necromancers join in the battle, hoping 
the PCs were weakened by the grivelings 
and the other forces in the citadel. 

Combat tactics: Nyeru and his associates 
learned early that a fire cannot be lit within 
the citadel walls; they do not know that fires 
light in the laboratory. Therefore, they 
might have an edge on the PCs as they do 








not waste time casting fire-based spells at 
the group. 

Promiss cast protection from good on the 
group as the PCs started to climb the stairs 
from Level One. He followed this with a 
prayer spelL When combat begins, Promiss 
casts hold person on a spelleasten He tries 
for only one target at a time to increase his 
chances for success. His escape tactics in 
clude casting feign death or running away at 
the first good opportunity. 

While the necromancers were preparing 
for the PCs' arrival upstairs, Albion cast 
spectra/ hand and summon shadow spells. 
As soon as a fight begins, Albion directs the 
three shadow's he summoned to attack a 
spelleasten thus distracting him. Then he 
uses his drow ability to cast faerie fire on 
the PCs, making them easier to hit. His 
next tactic is to cast vampiric touch via his 
spectra] hand on one of the obvious fight 
ers. His follow up spells include enervation 
and contagion. His escape tactics include ei 
ther casting feign death or drinking his po 
tion of diminution and hiding. 

Elock's first combat maneuver is to cast 
cone of cold, if he can do so without injuring 
his own party. Otherwise, he casts a death 
spell or Otiluke's breezing sphere as a globe 
of cold and hurls it at a player character not 
in melee. His next tactic is to throw a bead 
offeree at a fighter. Further tactics include 
casting web, contagion , and enervation. If 
he appears to be threatened, Elock casts di 
mension door to escape. If he believes he 
has additional time, he first casts wall of fog 
to separate his party from the PCs before 
escaping himself. 

When melee starts, Nyeru casts .grease 
on the floor in front of him to help prevent 
the party from meleeing him. He uses his 
boots of striding and leaping to put some 
distance between himself and the PCs. If a 
PC is able to get to him, his next tactic is to 
cast vampiric touch on that PC. Otherwise, 
he tries to stay back and attack with his 
wand of magic missiles . Other tactics in 
clude casting contagion, fog cloud , and en 
ervation. If he believes he is endangered, 
and he has the opportunity, he casts poly 
morph self to change himself into a small 
bird and flies away. 

If the necromancers are not victorious, 
and at least some of them are able to get 
away, they travel to the area near the wa 
terfall hoping to regroup with Red and 


Tracy. If this happens, the PCs can expect 
to have another fight on their hands if they 
travel to this section of the valley. 

Getting A Little Help 

The grivelings have been watching the 
PCs from their floor or wall vantage points 
and take in the confrontation between the 
PCs and Nyeru, the man they believe to be 
the Exalted One. Depending on how the 
PCs behave (and how they acted down 
stairs to the grivelings), the grivelings could 
come to realize Nyeru is not the Exalted 
One. They also believe the Exalted One 
would not attack without provocation, and if 
Nyeru leads an attack against friendly PCs,, 
the grivelings get upset. 

It is essentially up to the DM whether the 
grivelings interfere in the battle to aid the 
PCs. If the PCs are holding their own and 
have a good chance at winning the fight, 
have the grivelings hold back. However, if 
the PCs are losing badly, the grivelings 
could reach through the floor or wall to grab 
one of the necromancers and keep him from 
casting a spell. Or they might cast rock to 
mud beneath a necromancer. 

If the PCs are victorious, after the battle 
the grivelings insist the PCs help clean up 
the place so the real Exalted One or the 
First Protector does not get angry. 

15. Lounge 


Thick cushioned furniture lines the walls 
of this rose-colored room. Large, red 
pillows are strewn across the floor, 
which is made of pink marble. The walls 
are decorated with a half-dozen paintings 
of valley elves; the furniture frames are 
made of ebonwood. The room is lit by a 
patch of luminous moss arranged in an 
oval shape on the ceiling. 


This is where the Exalted One or the First 
Protector entertained guests. The paint 
ings were done by the Exalted One as he 
disguised himself as a valley elf and visited 
various villages. The paintings are signed 
"The Black One " The furniture is carved 
from idani trees. If the PCs study the paint 
ings, they can learn the Black One is an ac 
complished artist. The paintings are worth 
about 75 gp each. If the PCs sit on the furni 


ture, a small cloud of dust rises up, evi 
dence that the room has not been used in a 
while. 

16. Vacant Room 


This large room is empty but clean; the 
pink marbled floor is shiny and has no ev 
idence of dust. The beige walls are bar 
ren of pictures, and there is no light 
source in the room. 


The room is not what it seems. The necro 
mancers did not investigate the room be 
cause it truly seemed empty, and therefore 
uninteresting. The room actually is filled 
with old furniture, lab equipment, and paint 
ings. The Exalted One, detesting a messy 
place, cast a permanent vacancy spell in this 
room to make it seem unused rather than 
cluttered with old items. If the player char 
acters walk more than eight feet into the 
room, they bump into the hidden furniture. 
The vacancy spell cannot be disrupted un 
less a dispel magic is successfully cast. The 
items in the room remain invisible unless 
the PCs pull them outside. 

The invisible objects include three old 
couches, a dozen carved ebonwood chairs 
that are not as fancy as the chairs down 
stairs, two broken ebonwood rocking 
chairs, a decorative suit of plate mail, which 
if worn affords the same protection as chain 
mail, four chipped ceramic pictures, two 
chipped ceramic wash basins, a gray ce 
ramic bathtub, a four-foot-tall ebonwood 
owl, an idani wood harp with no strings, a 
large wooden box containing a banner of the 
Great Kingdom, a tarnished bird cage, and a 
dozen wildlife pictures signed by "The 
Black One." The pictures are early works 
and are not as good as those hanging in 
Room 15. All of the objects in the room are 
covered with dust and cobwebs. 

17. Art Room 


The stark white walls are covered with 
paintings of many shapes and sizes. The 
floor is covered with sheets of heavy ma 
terial that are splattered with paint. 
Three easels sit at the far end of the 
room; canvases are on two of them. A 


54 
















stool is near one of the easels f as is a 
large, wooden f paint-splattered box. 
The room is lit by the luminous moss 
spread over the entire ceiling. 


The Exalted One still comes here to paint. 
He never bothered to lock the door to this 
room, believing that nothing inside was 
very valuable; he usually thought little of his 
art. 

The room is guarded by three sheet 
phantom constructs the Exalted One cre 
ated and dubbed canvas sheet golems. 
Since he hates undead, he could not bring 
himself to use real sheet phantoms, so he 
made his own variety, in much the same 
way he constructed a golem, but this recipe 
called for common canvas. They lie on the 
floor absorbing paint and waiting to attack 
anyone who does not look like one of the 
visages of the Exalted One or the First Pro 
tector or is not accompanied by either 
mage. The necromancers were able to 
wander freely about this room because 
without his beard Nyeru actually looked like 
an image of the Exalted One, 

The paintings on the eastern wall are ab 
stracts. One shows a young boy carrying a 
shield with the Great Kingdom emblem on 
it. The boy has a tortured expression on his 
face. Another shows the boy screaming be 
fore the distorted image of a robed man. 
Others depict the boy a few years later, his 
face twisted with hate. None of the ab 
stracts are signed. The other paintings 
show scenes of the valley-the waterfall, 
guard tower, valley elf villages, korred rock 
garden, and the colorful birds. These are all 
signed "The Black One " 

The mage keeps these works here be 
cause they were from early in his artistic ca 
reer and he wanted to remind himself of 
how he progressed through the years. The 
two canvases on the easels are unfinished 
portraits of the First Protector, In one she 
wears black robes against a gray back 
ground and is standing with her back to the 
viewer, her head tilted around her shoulder, 
and her eyes seeming to bore into the 
viewer. In the other she reclines in bright 
sunlight by the pool near the waterfall, a 
brightly plumed bird on her shoulder. 

Any PC with the artistic ability non 
weapon proficiency who examines the por 
traits can determine that the artist is a 


master, and when finished these works 
would bring hundreds of gold pieces. The 
wooden box is locked; it contains small 
glass pots filled with oil paint and various 
sizes of brushes and pallet knives. 

Canvas sheet golems (3): AC 4; MV 15; 
HD 7 + 2; hp 35 each: MT 1; Dmg ld8; SA 
suffocation, slow spell once every three 
rounds, -1 penalty to opponents' surprise 
rolls; SD id; MR 20%: AL N; THACO 13 

The canvas sheet golem attacks by rising 
from the floor and enveloping its victim. It 
can enfold two man-sized figures. It kills its 
victims by suffocating them, draining them 
of ld8 hit points per round until they are 
dead. Victims enveloped by a sheet golem 
suffer the same damage as the golem when 
others attack to free the victims. The sheet 
golem is immune to cold-based spells, suf 
fers double damage from fire-based spells 
(which cannot be cast in this room), and is 
destroyed by a mending spell. 

18. Summerstorm's Quarters 

This room has a double lock, but it is not 
trapped. A thief must successfully open 
locks twice to open the door. There are no 
magical or mechanical traps within the 
room; Summers term feels uncomfortable 
relying on such things. He uses the room 
when he stops here while patrolling the val 
ley or when meeting with the First Protec 
tor to discuss valley defense plans. 


The room is lit by a glowing flower hang 
ing from the center of the ceiling. It is 
decorated in greens and browns. The 
chairs, bed, desk, and upright chest are 
made of a brown wood, possibly idani, 
not the rare ebon wood that fills the other 
rooms. The floor is a deep green marble, 
several shades darker than the walls. 
The bed has a thick, light-green com 
forter embroidered with designs in 
brown thread. The room smells like a 
meadow and is cozy and inviting. 


The glowing flower is an ivory carving with 
a continual light spell cast on it. It hangs by a 
string of pearls Snmmerstorm stole from a 
caravan when he was young. There is little 
of value in the room. The chest contains 


two changes of clothes, a nonmagical long 
sword, and a quiver filled with 20 arrows. 
The desk has two drawers, neither of which 
is locked. The top drawer contains a dozen 
thin pieces of charcoal and a stack of paper. 
Several sheets have sketches of valley 
elves on them. Summerstorm so admires 
the Exalted One that he is attempting to be 
come an artist. He has not shown the 
sketches to the Exalted One, wanting to be 
come better before revealing his work. The 
bottom drawer contains two silvered dag 
gers. a sketch of the vale showing the loca 
tions of the guard posts and the guard tower 
at the entrance, and a bottle of fine Fu- 
ryondy brandy. 

19. Endoble*s Quarters 

The door to Endobie s room is awash with 
swirling colors, a decorating touch the 
gnome illusionist was proud of (the First 
Protector and the Exalted One tolerated it). 
The door is not locked or trapped, but those 
who move to open it or inspect it might be 
suspicious as the colors become more in 
tense and pulsate. 

The trap in Endobie's room is two regen 
erating wards placed on a rainbow-colored 
rug on the other side of the door. Anyone 
stepping on the rug sets off the two-part 
trap, which is a rainbow pattern spell and a 
shadow monsters spell. The glowing, 
weaving, rainbow-hued patterns affect all 
creatures within a 30-foot cube, up to 24 
levels or Hit Dice, Those who roll success 
ful saving throws vs, spell are not affected 
by the rainbow pattern , but remain subject 
to the shadow monsters spell. Those who 
fail their saving throws are fascinated and 
gaze at the patterns. The two shadow mon 
sters each have 5 Hit Dice and attack the 
closest characters. 


The room is filled with colors. The walls 
are painted with rainbows and clash with 
the blue-and-orchid polka dotted floor. 
The furniture also competes for your at 
tention. as the chairs, the posts on the 
small bed, the dresser, and the desk are 
all painted a different vibrant color. 

Large purple-and-red throw pillows lie 
on the floor on top of bright yellow and 
orange rugs. 


55 
















Endoble has not been here for several 
months, so the room is dusty and the cor* 
ners are filled with spider webs* The 
dresser has four drawers, all locked* While 
Endoble usually trusts others, the Exalted 
One's paranoia has rubbed off. The dresser 
contains gnome-sized clothing, which might 
give the PCs the idea the room belongs to a 
child. 

The desk also has four drawers, all of 
which are locked. The top drawer is filled 
with a dozen ink-stained quills and two 
empty ink bottles. The second drawer corn 
tains two dozen unused quills. Each quill, a 
feather from one of the multi-colored birds 
in the vale, is a different color. The third 
drawer contains ten stoppered bottles of 
ink-blue, green, red, orange, brown, pur 
ple, yellow, gray, invisible, and pink. The 
bottle of invisible ink feds full but appears 
empty. Any writing done with this ink ap 
pears only if the paper is held before a heat 
source or sprinkled with dust of 
appearance. 

The bottom drawer contains blank sheets 
of paper and a blank scroll Actually, the top 
three sheets of paper are not blank-they 
are notes Endoble has written in invisible 
ink. They contain the names of the gnomes 
on the valley patrols. Next to each name is a 
long dash and an item, such as ivory brace 
let, silvered dagger, box of Bissel bon-bons. 
Endoble is planning to get each patrol mem 
ber a gift, and this is his list. The scroll is 
also written in invisible ink* It contains the 
invisibility, invisibility W radius* and im 
proved invisibility spells. 

20, The First Protector's Room 

The door to this room is locked with a com 
plex mechanism. Any thief attempting to 
pick the lock must add 20% to his roll. In ad 
dition, the door is trapped with a regenerat 
ing ward placed by the Exalted One at his 
insistence to keep the First Protector safe 
from spies of the Great Kingdom. Anyone 
touching the door sets off the ward, which 
releases a confusion spell affecting those 
within a 20-foot radius of the door. AIJ crea 
tures within the area roll their saving 
throws vs. spell with a -2 penalty. This ward 
can be dispelled (though the caster is a 
19th-level wizard). The necromancers have 
avoided this room ever since Nyeru became 
confused when he tried to open it. They 


plan to find a way inside it later after they 
deal with the Exalted One, 


The dark room smells of jasmine. It is 
furnished in a primitive elegance. The 
four-poster ebon wood bed is plain and 
does not have the elaborate carvings of 
the other furniture in the citadel. The 
chairs are plain and have no cushions; 
the desk and upright chest also are plain. 
The green patchwork quilt laying on the 
bed is the only ornate object in the room. 
The floor is black marble with veins of 
green running through it that match the 
dark green walls, A picture of a cloaked 
man hangs from the wall opposite the 
door you entered. The room is 
spotless-there are no traces of dust or 
spider webs. 


The room is kept clean because the First 
Protector stops here when on a patrol of the 
valley. She keeps the room in excellent con 
dition. This is the way it was furnished when 
the Exalted One designated it as hers many 
years ago. She declined his offers to fill it 
with more elaborate and comfortable furni 
ture. She said the room fit her personality. 

The painting on the wall is a self portrait 
of the Exalted One in one of his guises. It is 
signed 'The Exalted One." The upright 
chest contains four changes of long robes 
and a pair of high, soft leather boots. The 
desk has three drawers, all of which are 
locked. The top drawer contains one 
diamond-tipped quill and a stoppered bottle 
filled with green ink. The middle drawer is 
filled with expensive beige parchment bear 
ing the watermark of Sterich Stationers. 
The bottom drawer contains two books and 
a small leather-bound box containing two 
vials of perfume. One book is a diary written 
in drow, It recounts the First Protector's 
journey from her underground home to her 
first experiences above ground to her being 
taken in by the Exalted One. The other 
book is a collection of love poems written 
about the Exalted One. 

21 and 22. Laboratories 

At one time the doors to these rooms were 
locked and trapped with regenerating 
glyphs and wards. These have been done 
away with by the necromancers, who were 


critically injured in the process. After get 
ting into the laboratories, and discovering 
through Promiss that it would be even more 
difficult to gain access to the third level of 
this citadel they decided not to go any far 
ther until they dealt with the Exalted One. 
The necromancers already have looted the 
laboratory for the spell components they 
considered valuable; they assumed they 
could take whatever else remained at their 
leisure. 

Room 21 Description: 


Shelves lined with glassware cover each 
wall of this room. The center of the room 
is taken up by three work benches cov 
ered with more glassware, boxes, and 
large ceramic bowls. The room smells of 
rubbing alcohol and other stringent 
chemicals. 


There are about 200 beakers, vials, bowls, 
and glasses on the shelves, which are worth 
a total of 400 gp. All of them are clean and 
empty, and each one has lines and writing 
printed on it to mark how many ounces are 
inside. Many of the beakers and vials on the 
work benches are filled with liquids and 
powders, all of the contents unidentifiable. 

Four vials radiate magic-two oil of fiery 
burning and two black sight. The oil of fiery 
burning functions properly in the laborato 
ries or the kitchen, but not elsewhere 
within the citadel PCs opening the oils here 
are subject to their effects. The drawers 
underneath the work benches have been 
pried open. Their remaining contents in 
clude spell components, aprons, towels, 
candles, and tools. 

Room 22 Description: 


The walls of this room are blackened 
from the floor up to about a foot from the 
ceiling; the place smells acrid. Webs 
hang grotesquely from patches in the 
ceiling. Part of the floor is shiny, the re 
mainder dull and singed, and rutted. No 
wind comes through the room (the webs 
would move in the slightest breeze), yet 
you hear a forlorn sighing, like a cold 
breeze blowing through bare branches. 


56 













The Exalted One used this room to practice 
spells and invent new ones. The smell and 
blackened walls are the remnants of a de 
layed blast fireball spell. The webs are from 
a web spell. The shiny section of floor is 
from a grease spell still in effect. The ruts 
are from a failed variation of the rock to mud 
spell. 

In addition to these experimental mis- 
haps, Krimeah experimented with a limited 
wish spell in this room as a means of achiev 
ing a less costly permanency spell. He was 
successful in that the remnants of all spells 
cast in the room are permanent. (Thus the 
shiny spot from the grease spelL) An invisi 
bility, 10 f radius spell remains in effect just 
inside the doorway. Characters stepping 
into the room become invisible* If they walk 
farther than ten feet into the room they be 
come visible again. The only other spell 
in effect in this room is a silence, 15' ra 
dius, which begins just beyond the invis- 
iM'ty spell. There is nothing of value in this 
room. 

23, Dance Hall 

The door to this room was once locked, but 
it was opened by a knock spell from the nec 
romancers. If a player character opens the 
door and walks in, music starts to play. 


The soft, melodious sounds of a harp and 
a violin are heard as you open the door 
and step into the room. The harp and vi 
olin are in the comer opposite the door 
you entered and are playing a waltz. In 
the center of the room is a candelabra 
with magically glowing candles. The 
lights create dancing, swirling patterns 
of light about the room, the floor of 
which is polished hardwood. The room 
appears to be a dance hail. 


The harp and violin radiate magic while they 
are in the room; the room is a condition of 
their magic. They automatically play when 
someone opens the door and enters the 
room. They do not play if taken into another 
room, Krimeah would dance with the First 
Protector here when she stayed in the cita 
del between patrols of the valley. Waltz mu 
sic is her favorite, and since Krimeah is an 
accomplished dancer, he was quick to teach 
her every step he knew. The candles in the 


candelabra also radiate magic because of 
the continual light spells on them. 

24, Viewing Room 

The secret door to this room is locked with 
a complex mechanism: thieves must sub 
tract 30% from their open locks score. The 
room beyond is plain. It has white walls and 
is lit by a continual light candle. Part of the 
floor is a piece of glassteeled glass that 
looks onto Room 2 and 3, Krimeah came 
here to see who was entering his citadel. 

25, Secret Stairway 

There is no secret door leading to this stair 
well. To get here a wizard must cast a 
passwall spell from Room 21,22, or 23. The 
stairs lead up to Level Three, Krimeah's 
private quarters. 

This area is more heavily guarded than 
any other part of the citadel; those who dare 
to come upstairs are risking their lives. 

Level Three 

26, The Exalted Foyer 

Krimeah r s first line of defense on this level 
begins here, with an enslaved aerial servant 
and a stone golem. He left these guards 
here because he acquired others for his new 
home and wanted the possessions he left 
behind here to be safe. Anyone coming up 
these stairs who does not have the visage of 
either the Exalted One or the First Protec 
tor is attacked by the guards. 

Aerial Servant: AC 3; MV FI 24 (A); HD 
16: hp BO; 0AT 1; Dmg 8d4: SA -5 penalty 
to opponents' surprise rolls; SD +1 or bet 
ter weapon to hit; AL N; THACO 5 

Stone golem: AC 5; MV 6; HD 14: hp 60; 
#AT l; Dmg 3d8; SA once every other 
round, casts a slow spell upon an opponent 
within ten feet; SD +2 or better weapons 
to hit; AL N; THACO 7 

The foyer is spartan, with beige walls, a 
black marble floor, and no furniture. (Kri 
meah didn't want to put things here that 
might be damaged in the event of in 
truders.) If the characters back down the 
stairs after running into the guardians, the 


aerial servant follows (the stone golem re 
mains upstairs), To get farther into the cita 
del, the PCs will have to deal with the 
guardians. 

27, The Exalted Den 


The room is wood. A polished wood 
floor gleams in the magical light of a gem 
hanging from the center of the ceiling. 
The gem illuminates the wood-paneled 
walls and the wooden desk made of the 
same wood as the floor and walls. The 
shelves, which contain only a few books, 
also are made of the same wood, as is 
the rocking chair and the straight-backed 
chair that sits behind the desk. The only 
objects not made of wood are the black 
bear skin rug on the floor and the 
mounted head of a small gold dragon on 
the wall. There is one door off of this 
room, which is only distinguishable from 
the paneling because of the door latch 
and hinges. 


An unusual ward created by Krimeah is in 
effect in this room. After the door is 
opened, the characters have three rounds 
to sit in the straight-backed chair behind the 
desk. This prevents the ward from going 
off. Once a character has sat in the chair, he 
and any others in the room can walk around 
it freely. If no one sits in the chair within the 
three-round time limit, the dragon's head 
opens and a cloud of manufactured chlorine 
gas is released. The cloud fills the room, 
and all those in it must roil successful saving 
throws vs. poison or suffer 4dl2 points of 
damage (those who are successful suffer 
half damage). The dragon head can breathe 
only once. Then it must be refilled before it 
can go off again. 

There are seven books on the shelf. One 
is a book of poetry written by the First Pro 
tector; two are books on valley elf culture 
written by the elders of Darkglade; two are 
on gnome culture and are authored by En- 
doble; one is a book about the creation of 
chlorine gas, written by Krimeah; and the 
last is a book describing a liigh-level wiz 
ard's experiences on the elemental plane of 
Air, Krimeah stole this book from a sultan's 
treasure horde. The latter book is worth 
150 gp f the others are worth 20 gp each. 

The desk has four drawers, two on each 


57 








side. AJI are locked, have obvious keyholes, 
and are trapped with poison needles. The 
poison is type L^-those stuck by the needle 
suffer 10 points of damage unless their sav 
ing throws are successful. The two right- 
hand desk drawers contain blank scrolls of 
fine, gray parchment* There are a total of 18 
scrolls. The top left-hand drawer contains 
two empty ivory scroll cases, each worth 50 
gp, a diamond-tipped quill worth 90 gp T and a 
vial of liquid gold ink worth 125 gp. r Fhe bot 
tom left-hand drawer contains a small 
leather-bound box and a gray ceramic jar. 
The jar contains 100 gold dragon scales. The 
box contains a pair of men's silk slippers. 

The eastern door leads to a hallway that 
provides access to the other rooms of this 
level 


The hallway is paneled with the same 
rich wood found in the den. The floor is 
carpeted with a thick brocade that has 
gold and silver threads running through 
it. The hallway is lit by magical candles 
spaced every few feet. There are three 
other doors off this hallway. 


28* The Exalted Bedroom 

The Exalted One no longer sleeps here, but 
he continues to use the room to store some 
of his possessions* The door to this room is 
locked and has two wizard lock spells on it* 
To get inside, a character would have to cast 
pass wall or dimension door through the 
wooden door, use something like a potion of 
gaseous form to slip through a crack, or cast 
knock or dispel magic twice to negate the 
spells* Further, the mechanical lock must 
also be dealt with. The room has two win 
dows, both of which have gJasstee/spells on 
them. 


This black room has been unused for a 
long time. Dust covers the floor and fur 
nishings like a thin blanket, and cobwebs 
hang from the ceiling and the canopy 
above the bed. But the room does not 
smell musty, indeed, you cannot smell 
anything in here. Light streams softly 
into the room through two tinted win 
dows* A large, circular bed dominates 
the room; it is covered with a dusty black 


satin spread and black satin pillows* The 
bed* dresser, chest, and rocking chair 
are of ebon wood* A large black rug cov 
ers part of the floor* There is no light 
source in the room. 


Nothing inside the room is trapped or 
warded. Krimeah was confident that the de 
fenses he had set up elsewhere were 
enough to keep people from harming him 
here* And he was confident enough in his 
own abilities to defend himself against an in 
truder who must by this point be seriously 
damaged. The room has a permanent can- 
trip spell, which keeps the furnishings and 
walls odorless. Krimeah, who has superb 
senses, knew he could detect any invisible 
creatures in this room by smelling them. 

Under the bed is a long, thin box contain 
ing part of his wealth-400 gp, 100 pp, and 
300 gems worth ten gp each. The dresser 
lias five drawers, all of which appear to be 
empty. The two bottom drawers have false 
bottoms, however. In one false bottom is a 
small diary, detailing some of Krimeah *s ex 
ploits in the vale* It does not mention why 
he came to the vale or what his goals are, 
but it talks about his relationships with the 
valley elves, gnomes, tree people, and the 
First Protector, who he says is "the only 
person I believe 1 actually might love " The 
other false-bottomed drawer contains four 
burned-out ioun stones and a key to the li 
brary. 

The chest contains dozens of robes, 
cloaks, and slippers, none of which are mag 
ical, but all of which are well-tailored and 
made of expensive material The bed con 
sists of a large, circular feather mattress, 
which is very soft and extremely comfort 
able. 

The secret door to room 29 is locked but 
not trapped. 

29, Mirror, Mirror Room 


Mirrors cover every wall and the ceiling 
of this room. The floor is white wood, 
probably birch, and it is covered around 
the edges with luminous moss which 
makes the room practically glow. 


There is nothing in this room other than the 
mirrors* The Exalted One, always con 


cerned aboul his appearance and about fab 
ricating believable guises, would spend 
hours in this room when working on a new 
visage and image. The mirrors enabled him 
to view his created form from all sides, 

30. Bath House 

The door to this room has a wizard lock 
spell on it. Krimeah took no other precau 
tions to protect this room, which is an elab 
orate bathroom. There is nothing of value 
that can be taken out* The tub, actually part 
of the floor, is magical and keeps the water 
in it at 99 F. The water, also magically 
treated* does not evaporate* Krimeah 
spent a few hours each day here when he 
lived in the citadel to relax and compose his 
thoughts. Frequently the First Protector 
was invited to use the room. The window in 
this room has a giassteel spell on it. 


The walls, floor, and ceiling of this room 
are covered with small blue tiles* Set 
into the center of the floor is a large blue 
tub filled with warm water. Nearby are 
two benches and a shelf filled with blue 
sheets and towels. The air in this room is 
warm but pleasant, and it carries a hint of 
lilac and rose fragrance* Light cheerfully 
streams through a window' and reflects 
off the furnishings* 


31* The Exalted Closet 

The doors to this room are locked and 
trapped with fire trap spells. Anyone within 
a five-foot radius of a door when it opens 
suffers ld4 +19 points of damage (success 
ful saving throw vs. spell for half damage). 
The Exalted One kept most of his wardrobe 
in this large closet Many garments still re 
main. He did not believe that any tres 
passers would be especially interested in 
stealing his clothes. He just has many spells 
available to him and decided to cast ffre <rap 
spells on the rest of the doors on this level* 
including the secret doors. 


This room is a large closet. Each wall 
contains a bar from which dozens of 
robes are hung. A shelf above each bar 
holds stacks of hats and shoes* The 
northern wall is interrupted by a door 


58 
















; ] f f 4 T , 


J WfM 




H SN j 


'Wnm} f2 





iilrilw 


1 mSS&tet 




that has a fuU-length mirror attached to 
it. This room, which is big enough to 
serve as a bedroom or living space, has 
an unusual odor to it. It is lit by what is 
obviously a continual light glass bulb that 
hangs from the ceiling. 


If the PCs inspect the clothes, they note 
that the materials used are velvets, rich 
brocades, satins, silks, heavy weaves they 
have not seen before, and other fabrics with 
textures* All of the material is expensive, 
and the workmanship is exquisite. Not all 
the clothes are the same size, which may 
lead the PCs to believe they are the clothes 
of more than one individual. They are all 
Krimeah's, but some were tailored to vari 
ous guises, accounting for the different 
sizes. It is possible some of the PCs wLU be 
able to wear the clothes. 

There are a total of 46 outfits in here-an 
enormous wardrobe by almost anyone's 
standards, but only about one-sixth of the 
Exalted One's wardrobe. He keeps these 
clothes here because he considers it safe 
storage. Some of the clothes were acquired 
on several expeditions to cities throughout 


the area. Many of them were taken from 
merchants' wagons by valley elf patrols and 
altered to fit the Exalted One. 

There are 12 pairs of boots, six of which 
obviously never have been worn, And there 
are 22 hats of assorted styles, none of them 
the traditional pointed wizard hat. 

If the PCs search the garments, they find 
two small sacks filled with spell components 
(any PC wizards note that they are for the 
spells lightning bolt, cone of cold, 
invisibility, and fly). In addition, there is a 
wand of magic missiles with four charges 
remaining. This wand cannot be recharged. 
There are no clothes within eight feet of the 
doors leading from the closet. The PCs do 
not notice this unless they specifically ask 
about the placement of the clothes. 

32* Musing Room 


Light cascades in from the window, 
bouncing off the light yellow walls and 
the white floor and ceiling. There are 
few furnishings in this room-a half- 
dozen large throw pillows on the floor, a 


large cushioned rocking chair, and two 
braziers, one on each side of the chair. 


Both the doors to this room have fire trap 
spells cast on them, as explained in the de 
scription of room 31* 

Krimeah came here when he needed to 
muse and w r hen he desired natural lighting 
over that given off by the luminous moss 
and objects with continual light spells* Kri 
meah never allowed anyone else in this 
room, not even the First Protector, The 
chair is magical and enables whoever sits in 
it to hear the sounds outside the glassteeled 
window. The magic works only in this 
room; taking the chair out of the room ne 
gates its magical ability. Krimeah enjoyed 
listening to the birds who lived in the trees 
just beyond his citadel and would often 
spend several hours here each week study 
ing their sounds and trying to discern pat 
terns and a their form of communication. 


59 


























33, Castles on Parade 


Five large tables, each displaying a cas 
tle and miniatures, stand in this room. 
The castles are each different and are 
very detailed. (Continue reading only if 
the players are interested in the minia 
tures,) One castle is made of wood and 
stone and is surrounded by a stone wall 
with parapets. Miniature figures in chain 
mail carrying swords and spears appear 
to be storming the castle. However, 
miniatures armed with bows along the 
parapets are taking aim. Each miniature 
is intricately painted, and each is slightly 
different. 

At another table the castle is smaller, 
probably only two or three stories high. 
The drawbridge is down and a brightly 
painted procession of finely dressed men 
and women are walking across it. 
Around the castle are moss and minia 
ture trees, all apparently made from fab 
ric, A third castle is under construction. 
Wooden scaffolding and pulleys with 
string to represent rope are along the 
castle's walls. Miniature men, painted to 
look like they are sweaty and dirty, are 
mortaring stones into place. In front of 
the castle a man with a long blue robe 
and dressed in blue and green surveys 
the scene. A small boy, similarly 
dressed, stands in front of him, a crown 
extended to the man on a pillow. A large 
green dragon, with metallic scales, lies 
on the front lawn; an elf standing beside 
if is grooming it. 

The forces at the fourth castle, the 
largest castle in the room, are preparing 
for war. About a hundred miniature sol 
diers, all in uniform, are assembled in 
the castle courtyard, A large, muscled 
figure in a uniform decorated in gold 
stands in front of them. A dozen other 
miniature men are carrying swords and 
daggers, one of the miniatures is extend 
ing a sword to a soldier. In the castle's 
windows r beautiful women are seen 
waving handkerchiefs and crying. 

The fifth castle is in ruins. Two walls 
are scorched, the miniatures next to 
them are melted, and the ground and 
trees are burned. Only one wall is un 
damaged, but the figures next to it are 


crushed and their metal limbs are scat 
tered across the table top. 


The Exalted One, combining his love of art 
with his interest in history and displaying his 
own desires, created the miniatures in this 
room. It took him several years to complete 
these five tables. He is working on other 
miniature tables in his present home. He did 
not want to move these for fear they would 
be damaged. 

Astute players can pick up quite a bit of 
information about the Exalted One from this 
room. The castle described on the first ta 
ble is similar in construction to the citadel 
the PCs are in. The castle's floors can be 
lifted apart, showing the rooms inside, com 
plete with furnishings. If the PCs have 
mapped the citadel, but not found all the se 
cret doors leading to some of the rooms, 
this will help them. In addition, the minia 
ture castle shows a fourth floor, which 
should give the PCs a due that there is an 
other floor. 

The second castle is pictured in one of the 
history books in the library downstairs. It is 
of the first ruler of Bissel, the castle long 
since crumbled in ancient battles. The first 
coat of arms of Bissel, which has changed 
only slightly through time, is displayed on 
the front of the castle above the main entry. 
This castle cannot be taken apart. 

The third castle, which is being built, is a 
place like Krimeab wants to someday build 
for himself-after the threat of the Great 
Kingdom's spies no longer exists, PCs 
looking carefully at the miniatures con 
structing the castle find gnomes, mountain 
dwarves, valley elves, and humans (tree 
people). The green dragon, much larger in 
scale than the dragon Krimeah has 
charmed, represents an older version of 
that dragon. The miniature surveying the 
scene and being presented the crown de 
picts the Exalted One as he really looks, not 
in one of his many visages. The boy handing 
him the crown is Krimeah as a youth. 

The fourth castle, which is built on a low 
hill and shows an army preparing for battle, 
is the finished version of the castle on the 
third table. However, characters would 
have to examine them to note the similari 
ties and spot the emblem of the Vale of the 
Mage, a duplicate of the emblem displayed 
on the shield in the trapped room. This cas 


tle, like the first one, separates by level. 
Each level has miniature furnishings and fig 
ures, On the top level are miniatures of the 
First Protector and Krimeah. Characters 
looking at them notice the male figure is the 
same as the one watching the other minia 
ture castle being built. 

This castle has four levels and a base 
ment, which is revealed if the first level is 
lifted. The basement consists of five empty 
rooms and four rooms filled with assorted 
monsters-grists, grivelings, bugbears, 
and puddings. The largest room contains a 
miniature hydra and a wooden chest that is 
three inches long, two inches wide, and two 
inches deep. 

The chest is trapped with a ward that 
works similar to a shocking grasp spell, de 
livering Id8 *19 points of damage to the 
person opening the chest. There is no sav 
ing throw. Inside the chest are a dozen am 
ethysts (each worth 100 gp), three flawless 
emeralds (each worth 5,000 gp), and two 
flawless star sapphires (each worth 5.000 
gp), Krimeah has plenty of gems and 
wanted to put a handfbl of them in his minia 
ture castle to complete the look. 

The final castle is the home of the ruler of 
the Great Kingdom, which is evident by the 
Great Kingdom coat of arms on the castle's 
front. Krimeah damaged the castle for ef 
fect and to work out some frustrations, lie 
has no actual plans to destroy the real cas 
tle. This castle does not separate, PCs who 
examine it can tell that not as much effort 
was spent on this diorama. 

Both secret doors to this room are locked 
and have fire trap spells, as explained in the 
description of room 31. 

34. Vacant Room 

This is an empty room that was never used 
by Krimeah. He had plans to turn it into a 
small library, putting his most precious 
books here. However, he decided to move 
before realizing that plan. The secret door 
off this room is locked but not trapped, 

35. Vacant Room 


This room looks cold and uninviting. The 
plastered walls are unpainled and cov 
ered with dirt and cobwebs. The floor, 
made of unfinished wood, has a thick 


60 











coating of dust upon it. Light dimly filters 
through cobwebs and dust on the win 
dow pane. 


The window has a gfassteel spell on it, and 
the room has a vacancy spell on it. Charac 
ters examining the room actually do find dust 
and cobwebs, as the room has not been used 
for a long time* However, the dust they find 
is not as thick as it appears to be in the room. 
Only characters inspecting the room would 
notice this. The only object in this room, 
which is masked by the vacancy spell, is a 
stairway that leads up to the ceiling* There is 
no trap door or other access to reach the 
fourth level beyond, however. The PCs have 
to cast a dimension door or a passwaB spell to 
get through the ceiling. The ceiling can also 
be broken through, but it would take a total 
of four man-hours of back-breaking work 
with a pick and sledge hammer. 

Fourth Level 

36* Observatory 


You have come out onto the roof of the 
citadel. The valley stretches out on all 
sides in a breathtaking scene. You can 
see the trees rustle below you, but you 
do not feel the breeze from your vantage 
point, 


This was Krimeah s favorite spot because 
he could watch the stars at night and in the 
day look out across his valley. The room has 
a permanent invisibility spell on it, and the 
walls and ceiling of the room are ail glass, 
with glassted spells on each side and on the 
ceiling. When Krimeah came up to this 
room he would turn himself invisible to safe 
guard against spies and curious valley resi 
dents. This room also can be found if the 
PCs climb up to the roof of the citadel and 
walk around it. However, it would be very 
difficult, if not impossible, for them to get 
into the citadel this way. 


Area H-The Second 
Teleportal 

The glade is large and inviting. It is al 
most 50 yards across and is ringed with 
yellow and blue wild flowers that sweetly 
scent the air. The grass in the glade is 
short and thick. Butterflies and other 
winged insects dart across it in an unre 
hearsed ballet. They do not fly near the 
far end of the glade, where a shimmer 
ing, rectangular patch of air floats a few 
inches above the ground. 


This is the second tdeportal in the vale. It is 
linked to the teleportal in area E and oper 
ates just like that teleportal. Creatures pass 
ing through the shimmering area are 
transported to area E. Creatures passing 
through the teleportal in area E are tele 
ported here. Krimeah used the teleportals to 
move quickly across a portion of the valley. 

Area I-Crocodile 
Kingdom 

This area of the glade is claimed by a group 
of crocodiles who primarily eat the smaller 
animals in the glade and the fish and reptiles 
in the river. Occasionally they feed off valley 
elves, gnomes, and tree people who care 
lessly wander through this area alone. In 
turn, crocodiles wandering from their group 
are quickly dispatched by valley elves, 
gnomes, and tree people, who use the ani 
mals for meat and their hides for household 
items. 

The crocodiles do not bother the valley 
patrols, which are usually in excess of 12 
members. Although the animals probably 
could handle some of the patrols, they have 
learned through experience that attacking 
large groups is costly. Feeding off animals, 
fish, and reptiles is safer and just as filling. 
However, if the PCs walk in this area, they 
are considered fair game unless they have a 
group of valley residents with them. Many 
of the valley residents know about the croc 
odiles and stay dear of this area if in small 
numbers. The tree people are rarely con 
cerned about the crocodiles, and usually 
travel in the trees in this area rather than 
along the ground. 


The crocodiles attack groups with eight 
or fewer members, and are especially fond 
of gnomes* The crocodiles are sly, moving 
slowly along the riverbank or along the land 
near the river, hoping to surprise their prey. 
The usual tactic is to circle the prey and 
then dose in for the kill. The kill results in a 
frenzy, with the crocodiles fighting among 
themselves for the victims* If the PCs send 
a scout ahead, and the scout is attacked by 
the crocodiles, the characters likely hear 
the attack, as branches snap, tails slash, 
and their friend screams in surprise or pain. 
If the PCs are traveling in this area and 
are taking steps to be cautious or survey 
the land, they note branches broken about 
ground level, animal tracks, the broken 
bones of small- and medium-sized animals, 
and perhaps a rusted dagger or a few ar 
rows. This should tip them off there are 
predatory animals in the area* 

Crocodiles (18): AC 5; MV 6, Sw 12; HD 
3; hp 20 (x 6), 15 (x 6), 12 (x 6); tfAT 2; 
Dmg 2d4/ldl2; 3A nil; SD -2 penalty to op 
ponents* surprise roll; AL N; TliACO 16 

A small group of giant crocodiles moved into 
this area only a few days before the PCs got 
here. They lair about two miles west of the 
other crocodiles. None of the valley resi 
dents know about these new inhabitants* In 
the short time these crocodiles have been 
here, they have discovered a liking for 
apes, attacking the simians when they come 
to the river for water. These crocodiles also 
prey on other mammals in the vale, and 
have eliminated a jaleeda bird that came too 
close in an attempt to frighten them away 
from its territory. These crocs do not go out 
of their way to attack people, but if people 
walk into their area, they do not refuse the 
meal. 

Giant Crocodiles (7): AC 4: MV 6, Sw 
12; HD 7; hp 49,43,40, 34,30,27,26; ft AT 
2; Dmg 3d6/2dlQ; SA nil: SD - penalty to 
opponents' surprise roll; AL N; THACO 13 

The player characters can find nothing of 
value around the crocodile lairs. However, 
the skin of the crocodiles is valuable to mer 
chants and. if properly removed, could be 
sold in any city. 


61 












Kenku Adventurers 

This can be used as an optional encounter 
The player characters are not the only ad 
venturers who have slipped into the valley, 
A party of kenku, most of them leaders of 
kenku groups, made its way over the Bar 
rier Peaks, flying most of the way, and only 
stopping in the peaks to rest. They were 
able to evade a patrol of mountain dwarves, 
and were fortunate not to encounter any of 
the giants in the peaks. 

Unfortunately for the kenku, they encoun 
tered some of the creatures in the vale-a 
group of carnivorous apes that took them by 
surprise and lessened their number, and a 
few of the giant crocodiles that also surprised 
them and cut their number further before the 
survivors fled. When they took to the sky, 
they spotted a jaleeda bird and decided to re 
main on land for a while. 

The kenku entered the valley because 
they had heard some of the tales of platinum 
pieces and gems littering the bottom of 
stream beds, and they had to learn for 
themselves if the stories were true. They 
first tried to enter the valley at the opening 
by the Dim Forest, but they noticed a patrol 
and decided to go over the Barrier Peaks in 
stead, The kenku know nothing about the 
Exalted One or the defenses and magic 
used to keep trespassers out of the vale. 
The kenku were only interested in the sto 
ries about the wealth. 

Now that only eight of them remain, they 
are angry. While most adventuring parties 
might cut their losses and retreat, the 
kenku have decided they are going to get 
back at the valley and the creatures in it to 
gain revenge for their fallen brothers and to 
get rich before they leave. They are un 
aware of the valley patrols, having acciden 
tally avoiding all of them. 

If the PCs come upon this section of the 
vale, they automatically become targets of 
the kenku unless the PCs have with them a 
group of valley residents. The kenku attack 
if there are 15 or fewer in the PCs' party, 
AD NPCs, such as valley elves or other val 
ley residents (excluding the Exalted One or 
the First Protector) fall victim to the 
kenku s tactics. 

The kenku do not want to kill the PCs, 
merely subdue them, take their wealth, and 
then ransom them to their friends and rela 
tives. 


Kenku \8): AC 5; MV 6 S FI 18 (D); HD 5; 
hp34 (x 4), 29 (x 4); 0AT 3; D Id4/ld4/ld6; 
SA spells; SD spells, thief abilities; MR 
30%: AL N; THACO 15 

Ail of the kenku have 4th-level thieving 
abilities. In addition, these kenku can cast 
magic missile, phantasmal force , and web 
once per day. In addition, they can become 
invisible at will and can once a day cast call 
lightning. They have a 50% chance of pass 
ing for human. 

The player characters are likely to be sur 
prised by these kenku, which have been 
staying invisible to avoid the large preda 
tors in the area, particularly the green 
dragon they saw lumber by. However, if the 
PCs are checking the area for tracks or 
other signs of habitation, they notice the 
tracks of the dragon and the broken 
branches and bent small trees that marked 
its passing. It is possible the PCs will expect 
to run into the dragon and are on the alert. 

The kenku notice the PCs unless the PCs 
are also invisible or are using some other 
form of magic to hide themselves. The 
kenku, still remaining invisible, surround 
the PCs and begin their assault. They com 
municate telepathically, and therefore are 
aware of each others' presence and actions. 
They begin by having one kenku cast a web 
spell on the PCs, trapping as many as possi 
ble. Another kenku casts a phantasmal 
force spell-an image of the green dragon 
they saw. A third kenku waits until some of 
the PCs begin to get out of the web and 
casts a web spell that seems to come from 
the dragon. Although the kenku turn visible 
each time they cast a spell, they can turn in 
visible again because it is an innate ability. 
When they are visible for a brief period, 
they appear as humans, not wanting to give 
away the fact they are kenku. 

Further tactics include casting additional 
web spells {up to three more) to keep the 
PCs in place, and using another phantasmal 
force spell to create an image of a powerful- 
looking native shaman. The shaman walks 
toward the group, using signals and kenku 
gibberish to attempt to communicate that 
the PCs should surrender and throw down 
their valuables. If the PCs persist in attack 
ing, a kenku casting three magic missiles 
appears in human guise and attacks a 
sturdy-looking PC, If the sky is overcast, a 
kenku or two will use call lightning , bringing 


a bolt down near the PCs. The shaman 
makes another attempt to get the PCs to 
surrender. If the PCs surrender, four of the 
kenku in native garb come forward to strip 
the PCs of valuables, while the fifth kenku 
uses a phantasma/ force spell to create the 
image of a force of spear-wielding natives, 
mingling among the real kenku to reinforce 
the surrender 

It is possible the PCs, or at least some of 
them, try to disbelieve what is happening, 
which could effect the outcome of the 
encounter. The kenku, using their invisibil 
ity as long as they can, fight to kill the PCs 
only if they are in jeopardy, [f the kenku be 
come seriously injured, they turn invisible 
and fly away. The kenku cannot communi 
cate with the PCs other than by hand signals 
and gibberish bird-like noises. A tongues 
spell will not help matters, but any form of 
telepathy will work. 

If the kenku are successful in taking 
riches and weapons from the PCs, they turn 
invisible and fly away, satisfied they exacted 
some revenge for their dead fellows and ac 
cumulated some wealth. The kenku do not 
take all of the PCs' weapons, as they do not 
want to leave the characters defenseless in 
the valley. 

If, however, the PCs are victorious and 
kill some or all of the kenku, the kenku are 
discovered for what they really are rather 
than as their disguised human forms. Each 
kenku carries 100 gp total in a combination 
of platinum, gold, and silver coins. If the 
PCs are able to capture a kenku, the 
kenku-with its limited communication 
ability-attempts to explain how the kenku 
got into the vale, how their numbers were 
cut down, and why they attacked the PCs, 
The kenku T s pride does not allow it to beg 
for its life. 

If the PCs search the area after the con 
frontation, they find traces of a campfire and 
the charred bones of small animals that 
were cooked in the fire. It is obvious the 
kenku were camped here for a few days. 

Area J-Shrine to 
Ehlonna 

This garden appears sculpted, as if hu 
man or demihurnan hands had worked 











the trees and bushes to grow in artistic 
formations. Vines covered with pink 
flowers grow up the small, shaped trees. 
The grass in the garden is short com 
pared the grass that grows elsewhere in 
the vale. It appears trimmed and 
weeded. Toward the center of the gar 
den, benches made of sculpted stone cir 
cle a stone statue and a small bubbling 
pool. The statue is of a beautiful woman 
holding a bow in her right hand and a 
quiver in her left. Small sculpted animals 
circle her feet, and a sculpted owl sits on 
her shoulder, its wings spread wide. 


A group of valley elf and gnome clerics cre 
ated this shrine to Ehlonna after discover 
ing the magical spring. They considered the 
spring a gift from EhJonna. Grivelings, at 
the request of the clerics, sculpted the 
benches and the statue. A korred, who was 
paid well by the clerics, refined the statue 
into a work of art. Elves and gnomes use 
this area to worship EhJonna. There is a 
10% chance that a group of ldl2 \ r alley 
elves, a group of ldB gnomes, or a mixed 
group of ld6 valley elves and ld4 gnomes is 
here worshiping when the PCs come upon 
the scene. 

The worshipers attempt to learn the 
characters' deity. Characters answering 
"Ehlonna" are permitted to stay. Other 
characters are told to leave this sacred 
place. The worshipers fight if the PCs do 
not willingly leave, with one or two of them 
running to the nearest village to announce 
the intruders. The PCs* wisest move is to 
wait for the worshipers to leave and then 
explore the garden and spring. 

The spring was not blessed by Ehlonna, 
but the Exalted One has no desire to tell his 
people that. The spring was experimented 
on by the Exalted One about two years after 
he moved into the vale. He discovered the 
spring, which was little more than eight 
inches across, nestled amidst some rocks. 
With the help of a golem, the Exalted One 
enlarged the spring and used it for an exper 
iment. The water was exceptionally pure 
and clean, and Krimeah enchanted it with 
the use of an alchemy jug, a beaker of plenti 
ful potions, and by exhausting a ring of 
wishes. Because of the ring, the effect on 
the spring is permanent. Any human or de- 
mihuman who drinks from the spring is sub 


ject to the magical effects. No saving throw 
is allowed. 

The magical spring was discovered by 
three valley elf clerics who each drank from 
it and believed it was created by their god 
dess, EhJonna. The gnomes, who also wor 
ship the same deity, were quick to believe 
the valley elves' explanation and agreed to 
create a shrine at the spring. Wiley elves 
and gnomes recognized for bravery or for a 
significant contribution to their community 
are sent here to take a drink from the 
spring. The demihumans know to take only 
one drink, as a few greedy valley elves 
were witnessed to have taken multiple 
drinks from the spring and died in miniature 
explosions (potion incompatibility). 

The spring radiates an aura of alteration 
magic. If a PC drinks from the spring, con 
sult the following table by rolling ld2G to de 
termine the potion effect the imbiber 
experiences. There is a 5% chance that the 
effect is permanent, otherwise the effect 
lasts for ld4 days. If a PC drinks from the 
spring more than once during the ld4 days, 
consult the Potion Compatibility table on 
page 141 of the Dungeon Master s Guide to 
determine the results. 

Spring of Ehlonna Effects 

020 Roll Result 

1 Clairaudience 

2 Clairvoyance 

3 ESP 

4 Diminution 

5 Fire Breath 

6 Flying 

7 Gaseous Form 

8 Growth 

9 Invisibility 

10 Levitation 

11 Philter of Glibness 

12 Philter of Persuasiveness 

13 Plant Control 

14 Polymorph Self 

15 Rainbow Hues 

16 Speed 

17 Treasure Finding 

18 \fentriloquism 

19 Vitality 

20 \toter Breathing 

Consult the descriptions of the potions in 
the Dungeon Master's Guide for the de 
scription of each effect. 


Area K-Javan River 
Waterfall 


The scene before you is awe inspiring. 
The Javan waterfall cascades over the 
Barrier Peaks, thundering into a large 
pool at the base of the cliffs. This is the 
headwaters of the Javan River that runs 
throughout most of the valley and the 
Dim Forest and beyond. The water cre 
ates a mist that spreads over the land 
around the pool. At the base of the falls, 
rainbow patterns dance across the top of 
the pool. Small animals drink from the 
pool, and colorful birds fly through the 
mist, cooling and cleaning themselves. 


It is up to you, the DM, whether the Ex 
alted One has his fortress in place behind 
the falls or if he is in the vicinity. 

Red Morgan and Tracy are at the falls, 
hiding in the foliage inside the mist waiting 
for the Exalted One. If the PCs visit the falls 
before going to the citadel, only these two 
from the necromancer groups are here. 
However, if they visited the citadel first and 
confronted the four necromancers there, 
any surviving necromancers are here with 
Red and Tracy. The status of the evil party 
depends on how quickly the PCs come to 
the falls after the citadel. If the evil NPCs 
had time, they would have healed them 
selves and slept to regain spells. The spells 
they have available thus depends on how 
soon the player characters arrive. 

If only Red and Tracy are at the clearing, 
they seek to take on the PCs, believing they 
can handle the group if they can divide 
them, Tracy begins the assault with wail of 
fog spell in an attempt to separate and con 
fuse them. She follows this by assaulting 
one group of the PCs with web, fireball , and 
stinking cloud spells. 

Red, who drinks his potion of invulnera 
bility before charging in, assaults the other 
group, starting with any PCs who are alone. 
He uses his ring of spell storing to cast 
spectra/ hand followed by vampinc touch t 
which can be cast through the spectral 
hand, and enervation. He closes to melee 
weakened PCs once the PCs appear to be 
badly injured by his and Tracy's assault. If 
he is in danger, he uses wraith form or fly 
from his ring to escape. 


63 








Tracy and Red believe the PCs are agents 
of the Exalted One, and they are confident 
that by removing these agents the Mage of 
the Vale will be easier to deal with. If one of 
the PCs appears to be a wizard of consider 
able power. Red believes he might be the 
mage and concentrates on defeating that 
character 

If there are additional spelkasters (es 
capees from the attack on the PCs in the cita 
del) with Red and Tracy, the entire group will 
work together to defeat the PCs. The diffi 
culty of die fight depends on the condition of 
the additional speileasters. If the fight involves 
flashy spells or considerable noise, residents 
of nearby villages come to investigate (though 
it is unlikely that they arrive in time to affect 
the outcome of a fight). 

In any event, the necromancers do not 
fight to the death, preferring instead to es 
cape by casting feign death or other spells* 

If the PCs capture any of the necroman 
cers, the necromancers talk in exchange for 
their lives* If it does not appear they can 
create a convincing lie, such as working for 
the Exalted One as a patrol, they tell the 
truth about their plan involving the vale and 
the Exalted One, They impress upon the 
PCs that the Exalted One is considered 
evil, powerful, and a threat to the land, and 
that their actions would have done nothing 
but make the area safer. It is up to the 
player characters what they do with the 
necromancers. 

Area L- Baboon 
Territory 

A tribe of baboons considers this part of the 
valley its property. The baboons chase out all 
violators. The only exception are the tree 
people, whom the baboons consider another 
kind of monkey just passing through* They 
do not mind other monkeys passing through, 
as long as they do not stay or challenge the 
baboons* However, they do not tolerate any 
trespass by the banderlogs several miles to 
the east, whom they consider rivals for the 
fruits and nuts in the valley. 

If the player characters enter this section 
of the vale, they are pelted by nut shells, 
branches, rotten fruit, and fruit pits. Within 
four minutes of the PCs' intrusion, half of 
the tribe appears in the trees around the 
PCs and begins screeching and making 


threatening motions with their hands* They 
continue to pelt the PCs. If the PCs are not 
grouped together but are wandering indi 
vidually or in pairs in this area, the baboons 
drop on them and begin biting. In 12 min 
utes the entire tribe is gathered. 

If the PCs flee the area, the baboons set 
tle down. If the PCs use flashy magic or 
some other show of force that the baboons 
perceive as a threat* there is a 90% chance 
that they flee* If the baboons do not flee, 
they attack the PCs in force. 

The people who live in the vale leave the 
baboons alone, not wanting to be pestered 
by the ill-tempered monkeys* 

Baboons (40): AC 7; MV 12* 12 in trees; 
HD 1 +1; hp 5 each: MT 1; Dmg ld4; SA 
hurl missiles: SD climbing; AL N; THACO 
18 

Area M-Banderlog 
Land 

These apes are similar to baboons in tem 
perament and social organization. Like the 
baboons to the west* they do not want their 
territory intruded upon. The banderlogs are 
stronger, however, and pose more of a 
threat to intruders, so they do not back 
down as easily as the baboons. The ban 
derlogs consider the baboons their rivals for 
fruit and nuts in the valley,, thus they drive 
the baboons away whenever they come 
near banderlog territory. 

These banderlog operate a little differ 
ently than the baboons. While they detest 
trespassers, including the tree people, they 
initially watch those who enter their land to 
determine any apparent strengths and 
weaknesses. Further, the banderlogs seek 
to divide the trespassers to make them eas 
ier to handle. A banderlog may rattle a 
branch or drop objects into a bush to dis 
tract a group of trespassers. If the group di 
vides, with one faction investigating the 
noise, the banderlogs attempt to drive off 
the now-smaller parties. 

Their first tactic is to hurl pieces of fruits, 
rocks, and retch plant globes at the in 
truders, If the intruders do not leave , the 
banderlogs move in for the attack, If, how 
ever* the intruders display magic, the ban 
derlogs try to keep their distance and 
continue to pelt their targets. 


Banderlogs (20): AC 6; MV 6, 12 in 
trees; HD 4; MT 1; Dmg ld4 +1; SA hurl 
missiles; SD climbing; AL N; THACO 15 

Area N-Dragonne 
Lair 

This is the lair of the only dragonne in the 
vale. The dragonne f s lair is in a cave in the 
Barrier Peaks. It travels along the peaks 
and the edge of the vale in search of food* 
feeding primarily on careless monkeys and 
some of the large, slow-flying birds. It has 
curiously watched the goings on in the vale, 
such as the dispute between the baboons 
and banderlogs, the patrols of humans and 
demihumans, and the travel route of the 
green dragon, which it detests. 

The dragonne does not attack the PCs 
unless the PCs approach its lair or spot the 
creature and threaten it* Even then, there 
is a 50% chance in the latter case that the 
dragonne flies away. 

The mountain dwarves in the Barrier 
Peaks know a dragonne lives somewhere in 
this section of the peaks* Since the dra 
gonne has not bothered them, they leave it 
alone. 

Dragonne: AC 6/2; MV 15, Fi 9 (E); HD 
9; hp 50; HAT 3; Dmg ldS/ld8/3d6; SA 
roar; SD nil; AI N: THACO 12 

If the PCs kill or chase away the dragonne 
and locate its lair, they find the following: 
2,000 copper pieces, 1,500 electmm 
pieces* 1,000 gold pieces, 15 gems each 
with a base value of 100 gp* a potion ofdair - 
audience, and a potion of sweet water. In 
addition* the PCs find two shields, each 
bearing the emblem of Gran March. The 
shields are old and weather-beaten. They 
are from the patrol of Gran March soldiers 
sent into the vale many years ago* The dra 
gonne did not kill the soldiers* but found 
these shields near the base of the Barrier 
Peaks and added them to its collection of 
treasure. 


64 








B 



Citadel 1 


QRound level 

I squAce = 10 feet 
















Cita6el 2 







































MM 


mmtWMmmumi 









































I 

\#i 


* j9L"  It 

rK To 

i i 

V-W3& 

ULwykja^ri^X 1 

PfgHf k 

/"Tv 




XXI t/>[ m MrT ill 


YT> A ^ k mVVYVyrr 

i / 


^H^s.. -JL ^1%. 

jJ%. -Jl -I * * JL ^ jC JL Jl jL JL > jL 

































































































pc 


mum 

$! 

CfT 


q 3j^yQ>^ 

y* 

(TVi 



3* 


l^yy ^y T\Vs 


ibf^y 


























































































































by Jean Rabe 


There's only one way to get there-through the 
Barrier Peaks. Once you're there, you are confronted 
with armed guards, traps both magical and 
mechanical, and legendary beasts . . . not to 
mention the wandering necromancers. 

Why go in there? Because rulers of neighboring 
countries have asked you to persuade the Black One 
to help rout that group of expatriate necromancers. 
They tried a coup, failed, and came to the vale of the 
Mage to hide-and, presumably, to regroup and ally 
with the Black One. They may have gained the help 
of the Tree People, as well; you won t know until 
(perhaps) it'll be too late to turn back, it s a jungle in 
there.... 


TSR, inc. 

POB 7S6 
lake Geneva, 
Wl 53147 USA 



TSR, Inc. 


TSR Ltd. 

120 Church End, Cherry Hinton 
Cambridge CB1 3LB 
united Kingdom 


1989 TSR. inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in the U.S.A. 
ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS. AD&D. GREYHAWK, 
PRODUCTS OF YOUR IMAGINATION, and the TSR logo 
are trademarks owned Dy TSR, inc. 


ISBN 0-88038-816-1 
9270XXXX1401 
$8.95 U.S. 

















