Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09148 M 2 Vengeance Of Alphaks"
See other formats
Vengeance of Alphaks 

by Skip Williams 


























Masters Game Adventure 


The Vengeance of Alphaks 


by Skip Williams 



Editors: Bruce Heard and Eric Tobias 
Cover Artist: Jeff Easley 
Interior Artist: Mark Nelson 
Cartographer: David C. Sutherland III 
Typography: Betty Elmore 


*1986 TSR Inc All Right. Reived Printed in U S A 


Table of Contents 


INTRODUCTION 

How to Use This Module . 

Dungeon Master Background . 

Norwold History . 

Place and Time . 

Monster Statistics and Random Encounters 
NPC Capsules . 

Chapter 1: DAWN OF THE GIANTS 

Encounter Setting . 

Random Encounters . 

Encounter Key. 

Finishing Chapter One . 

Chapter 2: COIGER'S LAIR 

Encounter Setting . 

Random Encounters . 

Encounter Key. 


DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, DAD and PRODUCTS OF 
YOUR IMAGINATION and thr TSR logo arr trademark* owned 
by TSR Inc 

Distributed tu thr book trade in the United State* by Random 
House, Inc., and in Canada by Random House of Canada. Ltd 
Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors. 
Distributed in the United Kingdom by TSR UK Ltd 

This module is protected under thr copyright law* of the United 
Stairs of America Any reproduction or other unauthorized use of 
ihr material or artwork herein is prohibited without the express 
written permission of TSR Inc 

TSR Inc. TSR UK Ltd. 

POB 756 The Mill, Rathmorc Road 

Lake Geneva, Cambridge CBM AD 

W1 53M7 United Kingdom 


Chapter 3: NIGHT OF THE BEETLES 

Encounter Setting . 

Subterranean Random Encounters . . 

Encounter Key. 

Ending Section B . 

Chapter 4: CHAOS RETURNS 

Encounter Setting . 

Battle Forces. 

Capturing Alphatian Nobles . 

Forced Marching Land Troops .... 

Battle Timetable . 

Ending the War . 

Rosters . 

The Sea Machine. 



TSR, Inc. 

PRODUCTS OP TOUR IMAGINATION*" 


Chapter 5: THE FLYING CASTLE 

Encounter Setting . 

Castle's Flying Abilities. 

Encounter Key. 

APPENDIX 

New Monsters . 

New Magical Items . 

Prerolled Characters . 


2 

2 

2 

2 

3 

3 

4 
4 
4 

7 

8 
8 
8 


12 

12 

12 

19 


20 

20 

20 

21 

2J 

21 

22 

24 


26 

26 

26 


30 

30 

38 


ISBN 0-88038-271-6 


9148 







































INTRODUCTION 


The Vengeance of Alphaks may be played as 
a sequel to module Ml, Into the Maelstrom, 
or separately. The D&D(r) Master Set Rules 
are necessary for running this game. 

For best results, four to eight characters of 
levels 28-32 should join the adventure and at 
the beginning, the sum of the party's levels of 
experience should be greater than 150. 
Player Characters (PCs) ruling dominions 
are desirable but not mandatory. 

If the party is too low in levels, six prerolled 
characters are suggested at the end of the 
module. In order to balance the forces, use 
these characters as either PCs or non-player 
characters (NPCs). The prerolled characters 
can control a dominion and a corresponding 
armed force described in Chapter Four. 

Players with characters who have com 
pleted the MI adventure may take with them 
all spells and equipment accumulated during 
the adventure. Such extra equipment may 
include any of the magical items gained dur 
ing the various encounters or any of the 
rewards bestowed by immortals in the Ml 
Epilogue. 

How to use this Module: 

This module is divided into five chapters, 
beginning with a dominion raid and ending 
with a struggle to destroy a magical castle cre 
ating havoc for Norwold's forces. The entire 
adventure should be read before play starts. 
The module is intended to fit into an ongoing 
campaign in Norwold. 

Dungeon Master 
Background 

Centuries ago, Alphaks was a despotic 
ruler of Alpbatia. In a war that nearly 
destroyed Alphatian civilization, his own 
subjects revolted and banished him to 
another world where he attained immortality. 
In Ml, he returned to the Prime Material 
Plane seeking revenge but was repulsed by 
other immortals. Having discovered a way of 
manipulating men from his own Sphere of 
Entropy, Alphaks is again seeking revenge. 

To prevent intervention, Alphaks has 
devised powerful magic and tricks against 
any sort of detection and divination from 
mortals and immortals alike. 

As Alphaks cannot intervene in the open, 
he has concocted a plan that allows man to do 
Alphaks's bidding for him. In short, he hopes 
to destroy the human race by raising tensions 
in the already unstable region of Norwold 
and create a major conflict that will include 
Thyatis and Alphatia. 


Norwold History 

Norwold, for a long time an unsetded, 
unimportant region, has become a volatile 
region in the D&D(r) game world. 

The northern part of the continent has 
been settled by Alphatia and the southern 
part by Alphatia's historical enemy Thyatis. 
Territorial differences on the continent have 
become yet another in a long list of frictions 
between the two powers. 

In addition, nobles from Alphatia's King 
dom of Norwold are becoming restless as 
time and the burden of taxes breaks down the 
allegiance linking the colony with the mother 
country. Even Norwold's King Encall, the 
second son of Eriadna the Wise, the current 
empress of Alphatia, is beginning to talk of 
independence. 

These frictions combined with the petty 
jealousies and self-centered interests and 
vengeances of small-time political players, 
makes Norwold ripe for an adventure of 
treachery and war. 

For more information on Norwold and the 
competing empires seeCMl, Test of the War 
lords. 

Alphaks's Plan 

At the center of Alphaks's plan is Baron 
Norlan of Qcodhar (see NPC capsule, page 
2). The baron's fief is an island off the north 
west coast of Alphatia. Qeodhar owes fealty 
to the empress of Alphatia but because she 
refused a marriage proposition from the 
baron for one of her daughters, the baron is 
seeking revenge. 

Feigning allegiance to Alphatia and beck 
oned by Alphaks's mental suggestions, the 
baron will enlist a number of petty Alphatian 
nobles and conduct a raid on several of 
Norwold's port cities. According to the 
baron, the raids are being conducted as retri 
bution for Norwold's increasing acts of inde 
pendence and declining tax revenues. 
Although the raids are not officially sanc 
tioned by Alphatia, the baron's troops will be 
aided by a magical flying castle, a gift from 
the empress's son. After the raids have been 
conducted the baron, in an act of treachery, 
will give the captured port cities over to Thy 
atis. Also to be turned over are a number of 
the nobles, and the empress's son may be 
among them. 


Thyatian Interests 

Just as Thyatians have over the past cen 
tury continued rapidly expanding their 
empire, they have for a long time viewed 
Norwold as conquerable territory. And many 
feel that if not for Alphatia's influence in the 
region, Norwold would be a part of Thyatis. 

Thincol the Brave, the leader of Thyatis, 
views the current situation as fortunate. With 
Baron Norlan, he has a catalyst in the con 
quest of this northern land. With only a mini 
mum of effort and loss of manpower, key 
strategic ports may be turned over. 

Alphatian Interests 

Norwold's protector and the enemy of 
Thyatis, the proud empire of Alphatia, in 
order to protect its interests, will almost inev 
itably be dragged into the war. 

To further complicate matters the petty 
Alphatian nobles who raided Norwold's port 
cities will be captured, imprisoned, and held 
as ransom by Thincol. 

The Party's Interests 

Alphaks. hoping to pull as many powerful 
forces into the conflict as possible, has 
devised a plan to draw the PCs into the war. 

Two rival clerics, Lambert Bohn and 
Coiger dc Mory (see NPC capsule on page 2) 
have fought a running battle across Norwold 
in search of the same artifact, the girdle of 
De'Rah. Lambert Bohn seized the artifact 
and tried to return home with a travel spell. 
Alphaks, however, cursed the travel spell and 
now, Coiger has an opportunity to track 
Lambert down and take the artifact by force. 
On his way home, Lambert crosses a domin 
ion of a PC or a friendly NPC. 

Alphaks has set up a number of diversions 
to keep the party occupied until the war 
starts. If the party can aid King Ericall in 
stopping the war, their dominions will be 
saved and they will be handsomely paid. 

Place and Time 

Each chapter of this module features a 
location that must be placed in your world. 
Areas are suggested, but if they do not suit 
the campaign, the settings can be anywhere. 
Where the encounter is placed will determine 
the quantity of time and magic expended. 
Time and magic are all-important factors in 
this adventure. 


2 



INTRODUCTION 


Monster Statistics and 
Random Encounters 

All spells throughout the module marked 
with an asterisk(*) indicate reversible spells. 

The statistics of any monster mentioned 
during the adventure can be found in the 
Combined Monster Chart on the inside of the 
module cover. Each chapter lists its own Ran 
dom Encounters Chart. 

NPC Capsules 

Coiger de Mory 

C34, Chaotic 

S 15 D 11 I 14 C 16 W 16 Ch 16 
AC -8 hp 76 Basic THACO: 3 
Weapons: mace * 4 (master proficiency), 
hammer of flying + 3 (expert proficiency). 
Armor: suit armor + 4, shield + 3, cloak of 
displacement. 

Equipment: ring of quickness, ring of spell 
storing (five spells: mirror image, water 
breathing, dimension door, telekinesis, 
reincarnation, sword) cartographer's 
amulet (see New Magical Items section), 
chime of time. Ointments of blessing (xl), 
of healing (x2), of scarring (x2) Potionsof 
strength, of fortitude. Scroll of question 
ing. 

Spells 

Level I: cure light wounds' (x3), detect 
magic (x2), protection from evil (x2), 
resist cold (x2). 

Level II: bless ' (x2), know alignment' (x3), 
resist fire' (x2), silence 15 ' radius (x2). 
Level III: continual light', cure disease', 
locate object (x2), remove curse' (x2), 
speak with the dead (x3). 

Level IV: animate dead, cure serious 
wounds' (x2), dispel magic (x3), neutral 
ize poison' (x 2). 

Level V: cure critical wounds' (x3), raise 
dead' (x2), truesight (x3). 

Level VI: animate objects, barrier (x2), 
cureall (x4), word of recall. 

Level VTI: holy word (x2), restore' (x2), 
raise dead fully ' (x3), travel. 

Coiger is as evil and selfish a man as ever 
was. His major passion in life is collecting 
rare magical items, and he has carefully hid 
den away old artifacts without records of their 
locations. Coiger has a photographic mem 
ory. He usually destroys the document after 
reading it so that only he has the knowledge 
gleaned. 


Lambert Bohn 

C30, Lawful 

S 15 D 9 I 14 C 14 W 16 Ch 13 
AC -5 hp 63 Basic THACO: 5 
Weapons: mace of flaming + 3 (master profi 
ciency), hammer *4. 

Armor: plate mail of healing *3, shield +2, 
cape of protection + 2. 

Equipment: ring of memory, ring of truth, 
staff of commanding, cubic foot, potions 
of luck, giant strength, plant control. 

Spells 

Level I: cure light wounds (x3), detect 
magic, protection from evil (x2), resist 
cold (x2). 

Level II: bless (x2), know alignment (x2), 
resist lire (x2), silence 15 ' radius (x2). 
Level III: continual light, cure disease, 
growth of animals (x2), remove curse 
(x2), speak with the dead (x 2). 

Level IV: cure serious wounds (x2), dispel 
magic (x3), neutralize poison (x2). 

Level V: cure critical wounds (x5), truesight 

(x2). 

Level VI: speak with monsters, barrier (x2), 
cureall (x3), find the path. 

Level VII: holy word(x 2), restore (x2), raise 
dead fully (x2). 

A powerful and still rising lawful cleric, Lam- 
ben has his eyes set on immortality. He con 
stantly quests and crusades for the cause of 
law and the interests of the Sphere of Time. 
He will make a good immonal. 

Baron Norlan of Qeodhar 

F18, Chaotic 

S 17 1 13 W 10 D 14 C 16 Ch 12 

AC 0 hp 108 Basic THACO: 9 
Weapons: sword + 4 vs. magic-using beings 
(Grand Master proficiency). 

Armor: chain mail +3 of electricity, shield 

+ 2 

Equipment: ring of human control, greater 
talisman of elemental travel 

Baron Norlan is a brave fighter, but his many 
years of fealty to Alphatia have taught him to 
conceal his real motivations and feelings. He 
is not above acting cowardly if it will give him 
an advantage. He now seeks revenge against 
Alphatia because the empress would not 
allow him to marry one of her daughters. 


3 



Chapter 1: DAWN OF THE GIANTS 


Encounter Setting 

The events in this chapter should take 
place in a PC's dominion, or if no PC has a 
dominion, a friendly NPC's dominion. The 
events arc given in the Encounter Key and 
should be played in order according to their 
numbering. 

In addition to their original mission of 
intercepting Lambert Bohn, Alphaks occa 
sionally causes the giant missionaries to 
attack and ransack the dominion. If the 
adventure starts in a PC's dominion, messen 
gers from outposts or guard houses will warn 
the PC. If a friendly NPC fief is victim of the 
giants' raids, the :VPC immediately seeks the 
help of the PCs 

Random Encounters 

Roll for Random Encounters as the party 
seeks out the giants or travels to the NPC's 
headquarters. The encounters occur only 
within 20 miles of the giants' base camp. The 
encounters may help the party find its exact 
location. 

For every three hours of daylight (PCs' 
time), roll ld20 and consult the chart below. 

Tabic 1. Random Encounters 

1-12 No encounter 

13. Fire giant raiding party: 2d4 fire giants, 
each carrying three oversized javelins 
(range 400 feet, +4 to hit, 3d6 damage) 
and 2d4xi00 gp in his shoulder sacks, are 
controlled by Alphaks from his plane. 
While the PCs fight 2d6 hell hounds, the 
giants are throwing the javelins. When 
they run out of javelins, the giants charge 
the party and fight to deadt. 

14. Evidence of giants: The party finds the 
site of a combat (burning village or farm, 
crushed bodies, large broken javelins, 
etc.) and within 2d 10 turns, the party has 
a 50% chance of finding tracks leading to 
encounter 13 or 15 on this table. 

15. Small fire giant patrol: If encountered 
this patrol of three fire giants always seeks 
to retreat from the party, using their five 
giant hell hounds to attack and delay foes 
(see encounter 13 on this chart). Each 
giant carries 2d4xl00 gp in a shoulder 
sack which he can hurl (range 300 feet, 
damage 3d4) to distract pursuers. If the 
giants do not think they arc being followed 
(DM's discretion) they go direedy to their 
camp (see encounter 1 in the Encounter 
Key). 

16. Invisible stalker patrol: The mission of 
the ld4 + 2 stalkers is to spy on any heav 


ily armed troops and report to Coiger. 
They carry no special weapons or treasure 
and if discovered, they immediately 
attempt to return to Coiger's Lair (see 
Chapter 2). If they are attacked, one flees 
while the others try to grab some valuable 
items from the PCs (10% chance per 
round of melee) and then each flees in dif 
ferent directions. 

17. Peasant refugees: Groups of peasants 
flee from the site of a raid. If questioned 
they mention what place has been 
attacked. The information has a 60% 
chance of leading to another encounter 
(encounters 16, 18 or 19 in this table), 
within 2d 10 turns. 

18. Large fire giant patrol: 3d4 fire giants, 
4d6 giant hell hounds. Run as encounter 
13 in this table. 

19-20. Mountain giant patrol: This patrol 
consists of 2d6 mountain giants each car 
rying 2d6xl00 gp in his shoulder sack and 
12 oversized darts +2. They can hurl 
these twice a round up to 400 feet at + 8 to 
hit, inflicting 4d8 + 2 damage. 

Preferring to parley, the mountain 
giants do not attempt to initiate a melee 
with the PCs. Acting and dressing like hill 
giants to fool the party they will not reveal 
the location of the base camp unless suit 
ably bribed with at least 500 gp per giant 
present. 

If attacked by a superior force, they flee 
and have a 20% chance of finding another 
patrol (encounter 18 on this chart). If this 
happens the mountain giants and their 
2d6 hell hounds attack the party while the 
other patrol ambushes them and attempts 
to capture the PCs and bring them to 
Coiger's lair (see Chapter Two). 

Encounter Key 

1. News of the Giants 

If an NPC ruler is calling on the players for 
aid, read the following message aloud to the 
party. 

(Be sure you preface this message with the 
full names and titles of all the PCs who are 
present. The PCs have become powerful and 
important people and should be treated with 
respect and ceremony, especially by their 
NPC peers.) 


"My friends, l send you greetings, but 
also grave tidings. Trouble is afoot in 
Norwold again. During the last few days, 
peasants living near my dominion's wil 
derness frontier have fled their homes. 


They bring me reports of great tall giants 
and huge black beasts the size of oxen that 
belch out flame and brimstone. Who or 
what these marauders are, or where they 
have come from I cannot tell. 

"Therefore, I beseech you, whose 
mighty deeds have made you heroes of 
Norwold, to come and deal with this 
threat. Please make haste, I have already 
sent word to the king, but these maraud 
ers will not wait for His Majesty." 


2. The Base Camp 

This encounter should be played when the 
party finds the location of the giants' base 
camp. The camp's whereabouts can be dis 
covered through the Random Encounters 
(sec Encounter Setting) or with the help of 
Lambert Bohn (see encounter 5). 

The exact location of the base camp is at 
the DM's discretion. As general guidelines, 
the location should provide easy access to the 
dominion (within five miles of the border), be 
defensible, and be hard to spot. It may be 
located, for instance, in a thick forest or rocky 
area. 

The camp consists of a few large fire pits, 
many giant-sized beds of leaves and twigs, 
and several small (by giant's standards) huts 
for storing loot and supplies. 

The base camp contains 36 fire giants, 20 
giant hell hounds, 20 mountain giants, 25 
hell hounds, two large red dragons (the 
dragons do not talk nor cast spells), and 12 
invisible stalkers. Each time the party attacks 
patrols or defeats the giants in other encount 
ers, the casualties should be deducted from 
the camp's total forces. 

The invisible stalkers, the dragons, and 
half of the giants and hell hounds will always 
be awake and on guard. Two to four giants 
will be posted as lookouts, alertly searching 
the land and sky. The giants will fight to the 
death and will pursue the PCs if the party 
flees. 

The War Machine Battle Rating (BR) for 
the force at the camp is 120, Troop Class 
Good. If the camp suffers 50% or more casu 
alties, the troops try to retreat to Coiger's lair 
(sec Chapter Two). 

3. The Crone's Dreams 

The Crones of Crystakk are a trio of 
immortals, one of each alignment, who watch 
the affairs of Norwold through a magical mir 
ror. They often give advice and portents, for 
a price, to those who make the journey to 


4 






Chapter 1: DAWN OF THE GIANTS 



their isolated cave. More detail on the Crones 
can be found in CM I, lest of the Warlords. 

The Crones have sent the PCs cryptic 
warnings in the form of five dreams about the 
events to come. Like most omens, these 
visions are vague and their true meanings 
cannot be fully discerned until after the 
events they predict have come to pass. 

All the dreams occur on the first night of 
adventure in this module. If there are more 
than five PCs, some will have the same 
dream; if there are less than five PCs, some 
will have more than one dream. 

Dream One 


Wearily you press on toward the dazzling 
and disturbing red hue of sunrise. It 
seems as though you've been traveling for 
years, and you strain to get a first look at 
the sea beyond the green hills of home. 
The trail up the hill seems endless. A light 
fog shrouds your mount's hooves as it 
seems to run without moving. Panting 
and sweating, the destrier reaches the top 
of the hill. Finally, the ocean appears, with 
hundreds of ships bearing the blue star 
pennants. The flags grow to gigantic pro 


portions, until they mask the entire scene. 
The blue star fades away, leaving behind 
only a bright red symbol 


This dream predicts that the character will 
leave home and discover large fleets sailing 
toward his land from the east. The blue star 
pennants are the symbol of Baron Norlan of 
Qcodhar. Characters who went through 
module Ml should be reminded of the origin 
of the pennant, provided they ask. Charac 
ters new to this campaign will have to contact 
a sage in either Alpha or Oceansend to iden 
tify the pennant. The red symbol represents 
the family coat of arms of Thincol the Brave 
of Thyatis. In all cases, the party must meet a 
sage for this information or use a commune 
spell for the same effect. The red symbol 
refers to the treachery involving the baron of 
Qcodhar and Thincol of Thyatis. 

Dream Two 


You can hear no sound but the fevered 
panting of your mount and your nostrils 
arc filled with the odors of the sweating 
horse. Below the hill on which you stand is 
a crowd of refugees stumbling past the 


ruins of a city. Unable to bear the sight of 
their pained faces, you look away quickly. 
A friend detaches himself from the crowd 
and steps toward you. "How did it hap 
pen?" he asks. You hear yourself answer 
ing "an old enemy..." Appearing in the 
sky is a familiar face grinning and laugh 
ing. 


This dream predicts the coming of a great 
war. It is intended as a warning against 
Norlan's raid and the possible intervention of 
Thyatis and Alphatia. If the parly has played 
in Ml, the dreamer should be able to recog 
nize Alphaks's face in the sky. If the party has 
not played in Ml. then only a commune or 
contact other planes spell will reveal the nat 
ure of the face in the dream-but not 
Alphaks's intentions and secret plans. 

Dream Three 


You sit with two friends, your feel 
stretched toward the warmth of a camp 
fire. Suddenly, one of your friends slumps 
forward, a knife in his back. Jumping to 
your feet and scanning the darkness, you 
can sec in the valley a multitude of flickcr- 


5 











Chapter 1: DAWN OF THE GIANTS 


ing torches dotting the site of the array 
camp. An old henchman, sitting by the 
fire, seems uncharacteristicly fidgety. 
Although the battle has yet to begin, there 
is already blood on his hands. 


This dream predicts that a PC will be the 
victim of treachery. In Chapter Three, one of 
the PCs may be assassinated, or his identity 
as a dominion ruler usurped by a traitor. 

Dream Four 


You and a neighbor meet in a glade, and 
you clasp hands. Despite a long feud and a 
mutual antipathy, your quarrel has been 
set aside because you feel greater dangers 
are coming. Side by side, you lead your 
hosts to the battlefield. 


This dream predicts that the PC will quar 
rel with an NPC ruler of a neighboring 
dominion, possibly Coiger, but the dispute 
will be resolved in time for the character and 
the neighbor to jointly face a greater chal 
lenge. If the players ask for more detail on the 
neighbor, describe Coiger in detail (see NPC 
capsule at the beginning of the module). The 
dream also tells the PC to look upon the 
neighbor as an ally more than as an enemy. 
As Coiger may be a terrible foe, he may be of 
some help in the war that menaces Norwold. 
At the end of the next chapter, the party has 
an opportunity to enlist Coiger onto their 
side. Coiger is able to raise an effective mili 
tary force that could be of some help despite 
its fearsome and evil nature. 

Dream Five 


\fou are staring up at the battlements of a 
castle, but they are so high that the tallest 
towers disappear in the clouds. Dizzy, you 
look away from the casdc and notice you 
are standing in a familiar town that has 
been wrecked and pillaged. In rage and 
clutching your sword you look at the castle 
to discover its walls have disappeared. 
The fortress seems to be hovering on a far 
away cloud, and you shout, "You have 
escaped again, but I will find you!" 


This dream refers to the flying castle that 
appears in Chapter Five. If the player asks, 
the PC should be allowed a chance to recog 
nize the location of the castle landing (roll 
ld20 under Intelligence, with a penalty if the 
chosen town is in a distant dominion). In 


Chapter Five the party should be able to wait 
for the castle at this town and gain entrance. 
A well qualified cartographer or a traveling 
merchant may help the party in identifying 
the town and the cartographer's amulet (see 
Magical Items Section) may also help. If the 
party asks, describe the village during a sea 
son that can easily be recognized (just after 
harvest), so that the players have an indica 
tion as to when the castle may be there. 

4. Storm at Dawn Rising 

At the DM's discretion this encounter 
should be run when appropriate to the adven 
ture. At the moment of the encounter, the 
party should be in a small town or castle, rest 
ing, purchasing equipment, or questioning 
people. 

The giants, once again under the influence 
of Alphaks, are plotting a major raid. The 
target can be a small fortified town or a large 
village in a PC's or a friendly NPC's domin 
ion. The target should be within striking dis 
tance of the giants' base camp (see encounter 
2), and reasonably isolated from the domin 
ion's main armed forces. Likewise, the target 
should be reasonably weak militarily- 
Alphaks is looking for easy pickings, not a 
pitched battle. If the PCs manage to reinforce 
the best target, the DM should pick another 
unless the change is one that the giants are 
not likely to discern (ie., hidden defensive 
works or the presence of the PCs themselves.) 

The raiding party consists of 20 fire giants, 
15 giant hell hounds, and 2 large red 
dragons. Unless the party or another sub 
stantial armed force is at hand to stop the 
raid, the giants should completely destroy the 
target. If the town is able to put up some 
resistance, fight the battle. Otherwise just 
assume the target has been destroyed at no 
loss for the giants. 

If sufficient information on the target is not 
available to the DM, an example of the battle 
and a fortified town is given below. Included 
are some of the giant's combat tactics. The 
battle site is represented on Map I, page 15 of 
this module. 

War Machine Battle 

If the party is using troops to defend the 
town, the giants have a War Machine BR of 
95, Troop Class Fair. The giants' mission is 
to storm the target, get as much loot as possi 
ble and return to the camp by the shortest 
route. At the end of the battle, the track to the 
giants' base camp will be obvious (see 
encounter 2). 

The defending forces consist of 80 militia 


men (FI) armed with crude pikes and swords. 
Their BR is 35, Troop Class Poor. The town 
militia benefits from the protection of the 
walls with a + 50 bonus on the combat result, 
but troop morale is penalized -30 on the com 
bat result due to the dragonfear. 

Regular D&D(r) Game Combat 

If the party is defending the city alone or 
with very little help, the giants should engage 
in regular combat. Most of the troops may 
run away as soon as they see the two dragons. 

The first episode of the fight consists of the 
dragons' attack. Using a special tail attack, 
the red dragons fly parallel to the walls and 
try to clear the tops of defenders. After the 
first dragon attack, the giants rush the main 
gate. They start 300 feet from the town limits 
moving 80 feet per round. 

Once every three rounds, each dragon may 
sweep a 40-foot-long section of wall, with a 
chance to dislodge the defender on that sec 
tion causing him ld6 points of damage from 
the fall. Defenders of 16th level or higher can 
avoid falling if a saving throw vs. Breath 
Weapon is successful. The dragons continue 
the sweep until all the giants are inside or all 
the defenders are dislodged, whereupon the 
dragons fly back to the giants' base camp. 

Four fire giants, each pushing a mantlet 
(AC 0), lead the rush. Four more giants fol 
low, immediately behind (also AC 0), pulling 
a 12-foot green log ram for use against the 
town gate. The hell hounds follow the ram, 
and the rest of the giants are 50 feet behind 
the hounds. 

When these extra giants are within 
medium range (60 to 130 feet) they stop and 
throw boulders at the gate (AC 2, 100 hit 
points). Each striking boulder inflicts ld8 +8 
points of damage. If the leading giants reach 
the gate, they will be able to strike with the 
ram once every two rounds, inflicting ld6 +8 
points of damage. While they are using the 
ram, the giants will still be protected by the 
mantlets. 

The hell hounds stand behind the ram and 
automatically breathe over the giants' heads 
at any defenders above the gate (the fire 
giants are immune to these fire based 
attacks). Once the ram is functioning, the 
rest of the giants move to close range (less 
than 60 feet) and hurl boulders at defenders 
on or over the walls. 

When the giants have sucessfully breached 
the gate, they send in the hell hounds, breath 
ing in all directions, setting the houses ablaze 
and trying to kill defenders who lie in ambush 
or murder holes at the gate (see rules on fire, 
page 26 of the Master Players' Book). Once 


6 





Chapter 1: DAWN OF THE GIANTS 


the way into the town is open, the giants all 
charge in, killing anything that moves and 
looting the biggest buildings first. If any long 
melees develop, the hell hounds breathe into 
the crowd. 

The giants have an unlimited supply of 
boulders and are outfitted with equipment 
useful for sieges-ropes and grapnels for 
climbing walls and pulling comrades out of 
pits, bundles of brush for filling in pits and 
ditches, pots of oil for use as grenades, and 
anything else they might reasonably be carry 
ing. 

Giants are not very intelligent and their 
strategy is devised spontaneously during bat 
tle. If anything goes awry, they will storm the 
walls with grapnels. If more than 66% of 
their forces (240 HD or more) have fallen on 
the battlefield, one of the giants sounds a gen 
eral retreat. The giants then rush back to the 
base camp (see encounter 2). 

5. The arrival of Lambert Bohn 

Run this encounter shortly after the giant's 
raid (encounter 4). 

Despite the giants, Lambert managed to 
reach the PCs' headquarters. Read the fol 
lowing when Lambert and the PCs meet: 


A mature looking and travel-worn man 
walks up to you and bows. "My lords, I 
am called Lambert Bohn. Many leagues 
of hardship and travail lie behind me. 
Your realm is indeed a p/casanf sight, but 
1 see that you are beset by marauders who 
seek to destroy what you have built here. 

"I know the despoiler of your lands, 
who, driven by greed and spite, seeks to 
prevent me from completing my holy 
quest. He thinks nothing of trampling you 
to gain his foul end. I am sorry that I have 
led his forces here. I would never have 
knowingly allowed a settled land to share 
my peril, hut this part of Norwold is not 
familiar tu me. 

"Havingseen the giant's camp, 1 could 
lead you there and help drive them away. 
One quick battle, and those giants would 
bother you no more. 

"Furthermore, 1 know where their 
leader dwells and where he has stored the 
plunder bom a score of dominions. Beat 
the scoundrel in his hidden lair and you 
shall have plunder enough to repair your 
realm and fill its coffers. For myself, I ask 
nothing in return. To have a hand in deal 
ing my foe a defeat is reward enough." 


Lambert will answer questions and tell the 


PCs general information about his running 
fight with Coiger de Mory. He will not, how 
ever, reveal that he holds the powerful arti 
fact, The girdle ofDc'Rah. 

Lambert is reluctant to speak about his 
quest, saying it is a highly personal matter 
which involves his path to spirituality. If the 
PCs persist in asking for details about his 
quest, he will stop the questioning there. 
Under no circumstances will Lambert part 
with the artifact as it is one of the items he 
needs to please his immortal master. 

If the party refuses Lambert's ofTcr of help, 
he will take his leave. If the party attampts to 
capture him, Lambert will surrender. 

The girdle is hidden in a small dimensional 
pocket and a talisman, which the cleric keeps 
in his robes, summons the item when the 
command words, "In time all dies and lives," 
are spoken. Coiger, too, knows these com 
mand words. 

While Lambert is with the party, Alphaks 
secretly removes the artifact from its inter- 
planar cache and teleports the item to a 
remote hiding place in the principal city or 
castle of the dominion. 

Once the artifact is teleported from its 
dimensional pocket, Alphaks lifts the curse 
preventing Lambert from using his travel 
related spells. 

The cleric then tells the party of the girdle 
and that it is missing. Lambert and the party 
should use all of the powers available to them 
to detect the location of the artifact. The use 
of a commune, contact outer plane, or wish 
may help. 

If the PCs agree to Lambert's offer, he will 
tell them the exact locations of both the 
giants' base camp (see encounter 1) and 
Coiger de Mory's lair (see Chapter Two). 
Lambert will then place himself at the PCs' 
disposal until the giants are driven away. 

Using his Cartographer's Amulet Coiger, 
too, notices the artifact has been moved. 
Ignoring the movement of the party, Coiger 
orders his giants to find and seize the girdle. 
Coiger's army consists of 30 fire giants, 12 
giant hell hounds, 20 hell hounds, and 20 
mountain giants. 

Finishing Chapter One: 

With both forces heading toward the area 
where the girdle of De'Rah is now located, 
any number of scenarios may take place. 

Depending on the distances needed to tra 
vel to the principal city or castle, either of the 
two forces may arrive at the site, capture the 
artifact and leave before the arrival of the 
opposing force. One force may seize the arti 


fact, but may be unable to escape the area 
without running into the opposing force. 
Alternatively both forces may arrive in the 
area simultaneously. In all but the first sce 
nario a battle should be expected. 

It should be remembered, however, that 
although Lambert and Coiger are enemies, 
and Lambert has sought the help of the party, 
the PCs and Coiger arc not necessarily ene 
mies. If the party intercepts Coiger's army 
with a superior force, the chaotic cleric will 
make at least weak overtures toward negotia 
tions. Saying he regards the artifact as his, 
Coiger will offer the PCs a finder's fee of 
20,000 gp for either the girdle if they have it, 
or for their help in securing it (if the two 
forces meet on the way to the area). 

If the PCs recognize the offer as unreason 
able and refuse it, a battle will probably 
ensue, perhaps here or perhaps near or in the 
principal city. If the party accepts the offer 
they arc bound to it and the adventure con 
tinues with Chapter Three. 

If the PCs have captured I-ambert, Coiger 
is impressed but will be unwilling to pay a 
ransom for his custody. Coiger is interested in 
only the artifact. If Coiger recovers the arti 
fact or if he is defeated, he immediately 
returns to his lair, leaving the giants to fend 
for chemselves. 


7 




Chapter Two: COIGER'S LAIR 


Encounter Setting: 

This chapter is to be played only if the PCs 
decide to attack Coiger. The location of the 
lair is at the discretion of the DM. 

If the PCs use normal modes of travel to 
reach the lair instead of teleport or travel 
spells, roll for Random Encounters each day 
of the trip using the appropriate wilderness 
encounter table from the D&D(r) Expert rule- 
book. 

Coiger's Lair 

Coiger dc Mory's hall is housed in one of a 
series of forested bluffs overlooking a small 
nver. The area is remote, far from any 
human, demi-human, or humanoid com 
munities. The location of the main entrance 
should be obvious, with a well-trod path lead 
ing directly to a 30-foot opening into the 
cavern. 

Rooms in the hall are unlit unless other 
wise noted. All doors are made of plates of 
hardened bronze and are not locked unless 
otherwise noted; locked doors are difficult to 
force (1 in 6 chance of opening, strength 
bonuses halved, dropping fractions). Some 
doors are giant-sized (noted in the encounter 
description), and arc equally difficult to force 
even when unlocked due to their exceptional 
size. A knock spell will open any door in the 
hall 

Random Encounters 

There are no random encounters for the 
hall but six meks regularly patrol the area. 
The party has a one in six chance of encoun 
tering the patrol once every two turns. 

Morale 

All the meks and the undead beholder in 
area 15 will fight to the death and never check 
morale. All other creatures and NPCs check 
for morale unless other guidelines are given 
in the encounter. If a foe fails a morale check, 
he flees if an escape is available, otherwise he 
surrenders. If the PCs mercilessly kill every 
thing they come across, no resident will sur 
render. 

Tactics 

When running Chapter Two, keep in mind 
the reaction of the residents of the hall as a 
whole. When the presence of the PCs 
becomes known. it is unlikely the more intel 
ligent residents will just sit in their rooms 
waiting to be attacked. On the other hand, no 
resident will be out organizing a foolproof 
defense if the attack has not been detected. 


If the PCs kill or take prisoners at every 
opportunity, within one turn, the fact that 
some creatures are missing will lead other 
residents to assume they are being attacked. 
If any resident successfully flees from an 
encounter, assume the entire hall is alerted. 
Once every three turns, the residents have a 
one in four chance of discovering the party. 

When the party is discovered, the servants 
will either hide or flee. The giants will post 
extra sentries and bar their doors and Coiger 
will gather the strongest surviving residents 
and carry the fight to the party. Coiger will 
especially try to protect areas 12 and 14. 

If the party defeats Coiger in a fight, he will 
use his word of recall spell to get back to his 
temple in area 15. 

Encounter Key 

see Map II 

1. Gate Guardpost 

Run this encounter when the party arrives 
at the entrance to Coiger's lair. 

Three mountain giants, one young fire 
giant and two giant hell hounds stand guard 
by the portcullis. Two more mountain giants 
man a pair of murder holes over the stairs 
(area la). The murder holes are extremely 
well concealed and arc considered secret 
doors. 

If the party attempts to parley, the giants 
are rude and uncooperative. If the PCs 
decide to attack, the giants in area 2 join the 
fight immediately. All the giants are armed 
with a club and a long 25 foot pike +2. 
Standing behind the portcullis, the giants 
attack the party from outside of the reach of 
the PC's melee weapons. The two giants 
manning the murder holes, also armed with 
pikes, attack spell casters in preference to 
other characters. Pike-armed giants attack at 
+ 3 to hit and damage. 

The young fire giant and the hell hounds 
do not join the fight immediately, waiting for 
any foe attempting to teleport past the gate. If 
the melee turns against the giants, the young 
fire giant runs to area 2 for help. 

The room contains a ratchet for operating 
the portcullis (position R on the map) and a 
rack containing 20 pikes *2 at position PR. 

2. Guardpost Rest Area 

Four mountain giants lounge here. They 
aid the giants in area 1 if the gate is attacked. 
The sinkhole in the east end of the loom leads 
to an exit which opens 300 feet from the 
entrance of the lair, behind a large rock. 


3. Secret Door 

This secret door, which closes area 11, is 
locked. The residents pass through the door 
by use of a key or by knocking three times, 
which brings a Mek from area 11 to open it. 

4. Secret Alcove 

This area is concealed by a large rocky 
panel. The alcove contains a drolem whose 
mission is to guard the door to area 11. 

Watching the hall through a peep hole, this 
construct attacks any creature tampering 
with the door. Gaining surprise unless the 
secret panel behind which it hides is detected, 
its first attack is always a flying leap that ends 
with a four-claw attack as it lands. Thereaf 
ter, the drolem attacks normally. The crea 
ture will defend itself. 

5 a-c. Giant's Barracks 

Two mountain giants, armed with stone 
clubs (normal damage) and oversized darts 
(hurled twice per round, 400 foot range, +6 
to hit, 4-24 points of damage) stand guard at 
these giant-sized secret doors. If attacked 
they raise a hue and cry warning their com 
rades in area 5b. The two guards begin a 
fighting retreat if either loses more than 50% 
of his hit points. 

5a. Mascot's Alcove 

A giant wyvem lives here. At the first sign 
of fighting it hunkers into the sinkhole, wait 
ing for a chance to attack the enemy from 
behind. Unless a PC looks directly into the 
sinkhole, the wyvem cannot be seen. 

5b. The Giant's Ballista 


This chamber contains several piles of 
skins, a few barrels, and a rack of over 
sized darts. Three giants man the ballista 
while three others brandish huge darts. 


The giants fire the ballista or throw dans 
until the PCs get within melee range. If three 
giants man the ballista, two bolts are fired 
each round. If two giants arc on the ballista, 
two bolts arc fired every second round, and if 
only one giant is manning it. two bolts arc 
fired every third round. 

The ballista has the same hit probability as 
the giant firing. Both bolts are aimed at the 
same target, but the attack should be rolled 
separately for each. There are 20 bolts and 
each inflicts 5d6 points of damage. 


8 





Chapter Two: COIGER'S LAIR 


When the party reaches area 5b, the giants 
in area 5c will start shooting their ballistas. 

5c. Living Area 

The one-way doors leading out of this 
room arc giant sized. 


Furnished with a chaotic mass of furniture 
and eating utensils, this chamber looks 
very lived in. The chamber's most note 
worthy contents arc two fire pits, four 
chests, a rack of dans, and two ballistas. 
The 10 giants in the chamber glare at you. 


Two of the chests each contain 36 pieces of 
rare and fragile pottery, worth a total of 
12.600 gp. The third contains a collection of 
insects wonh to a collector 2d 12x100 gp and 
the last chest is worthless. 

6 a-c. Prison 

6a. Cell Block 

Two meks guard the entrance to this area 
not allowing the PCs to enter without a fight. 
Any disturbance near the entrance will bring 
the jailer (see area 6b). 


This chamber is panicularlv offensive and 
damp, with an almost charnel stench. To 
the north you see six sheets of bronze, 
each 8 feet square, lying on the floor in 
two rows. Each sheet is fitted with a 1- 
foot-squarc hatch covered with a pile of 
rocks. Farther north you see a second 
group of bronze sheets. From somewhere 
below, you can hear the soft moaning of a 
creature in great pain. 


The bronze squares cover individual 
cellpits about 25 feet deep. 8 feet square at the 
bottom and narrowing to 7*/z feet at top. The 
reverse slope and slipperiness of the walls 
make them impossible to climb. The hatches 
are used for periodic observation and feeding 
of the prisoners. 

A. A human skeleton is draped over a rot 
ted wooden stool. This was once an impor 
tant prisoner, now forgotten. 

B. Leandrax: Coiger plans to offer this 
lady as a human sacrifice in the temple. 
When freed she will ask for armor and weap 
ons and if refused will try to escape. If a PC 
convinces her to stay with the party, she may, 
at the end of the adventure, become his 
hench woman. 

C. Fortios: An acrobat in a road show, he 
too is being held as a future sacrifice. He has 
nothing special to offer the PCs but can be 


trained as a thief. 

D. Zargos: Another future sacrifice. 

E. Empty. 

F. Sire Entrechat: Caught snooping 
around the hall severed months ago, this pris 
oner is being kept as a source for potion 
ingredients. Actually a wererat, he will 
present himself to the party as a wealthy mer 
chant appalled at the treatment he has 
received. He will offer the PCs a large, non- 
existant ransom if they get him out safely. 
When the opportunity arises, he will trans 
form into a rat and try to escape. 

G. Dondclla: This lady was being held as a 
sacrifice when the jail keeper strangled her in 
a rage. While the jailer looks for a way to 
make her death seem like an accident her 
body remains here. 

H and I. Empty. 

J. Rcvener: Lying veiled in a bundle of 
rags, only half of this creature is visible from 
the hatch. Hoping to lure someone close 
enough to attack, the creature moans as 
though in great pain. If a curious PC 
descends into the pit, the creature lashes out, 
surprising the victim on 1-3, and hitting on 
its first attack automatically if it gets surprise. 

K. and L. Empty 

6b. Jailer's Quarters 


This squalid hole contains a bed with vile 
covers, two chests, a wardrobe, a bench, a 
weapon rack, and a stool. All are dirty 
from neglect. 


Peigllc, the jailor, might be here, or in area 
6c tending the implements. He will investi 
gate any noises at the entrance of ihe jail. 

PeigUe: D12, Chaotic, THACO 3, M 

S17, 115, W10, D17, C14, Ch8, AC -9, hp 

86 

Equipment: sword + 3 (master proficiency), 
light crossbow (master proficiency), plate 
mail of ethereality * 4, shield of electricity 
+ 3, ring of protection * 1, claws of rak 
ing, poker of searing, ring of remedies, 
medallion of empathy; potions of blend 
ing, of strength and of speed. 

Both untrapped chests are locked with 
intricate locks. To open either requires two 
knock spells or a successful attempt to pick 
locks at - 30% to the roll. Peiglle has the only 
set of keys. 

The first chest contains a worthless assort 
ment of materials for polishing metals. 


The second chest contains a full set of 
dwarf-sized plate mail +1, cleaned and 
wrapped in soft leather, a teak box with brass 
fittings (value 50 gp) containing a war ham 
mer + 1 , a walnut box with brass fittings 
(value 35 gp) containing a short sword + 1, a 
quiver containing quarrels + 1 , eight silver 
quarrels, nine normal quarrels, a light cross 
bow wrapped in soft leather, and a ring of 
protection +1. All of the items are part of 
Peiglle's adventuring equipment which he 
keeps carefully preserved to remind himself 
of the good old days. 

Under all these valuables is a false bottom 
guarded by a blinding gas ejector. Extremely 
well hidden, this trap is hard to remove 
(~30% penalty on both rolls). If a saving 
throw vs. poison fails the player is perma 
nently blinded until a cureall spell is applied 
If the saving throw is successful the victim 
still suffers temporary (four to 16 rounds) 
bouts of blindness occurring every three to six 
turns. The bouts come without warning and 
persist until a neutralize poison spell is 
applied. Under the false bottom are two non- 
magical jeweled daggers (value 4,000 gp 
each), a crown (value 11,000 gp), two sacks 
each containing 250 pp, and a pouch contain 
ing three 2,000 gp opals. 

The weapon rack is empty, except for a 
case of 12 quarrels of blinking + 4, and a light 
crossbow + 2 of distance. 

6c. Torture Chamber 


The walls and floor of this small chamber 
are set with thick steel rings, each well 
oiled and bright. The 10 foot section of 
north wall is hung with yards of equally 
polished steel chains, all equipped with 
manacles and fetters. Completing the 
decor are a giant sized iron maiden, sev 
eral iron boots, a furnace with a supply of 
charcoal and ingots, and a rack of torture 
implements. A three-armed giant stands 
in the middle of the room. 


Peiglle's assistant, an athach of sufficient 
intelligence to obey simple orders, is here. An 
exceedingly stupid creature, it will immedi 
ately attack the closest PC. It continues its 
attack, ignoring everything else, until it or 
the PC is dead. The athach wields three huge 
maces +2 in combat. There are no prisoners 
or treasure in the torture chamber. 


9 








Chapter Two: COIGER'S LAIR 


7. Storage Cavern 

This chamber contains a mass of crates and 
barrels and a huge pile of charcoal. There is 
an equally huge pile of dung and smaller piles 
ol hay and straw. In addition there are sev 
eral cages full of various livestock, including 
chickens, pigs, goats, and sheep. The place 
looks, sounds, and smells like a barnyard. 

8. Pantry 

A storage area for perishable foodstuffs, 
the room is fastidiously clean. 

9. Kitchen 

This brightly lit room is hot and humid. A 
large stove occupies the entire east wall and 
two brick ovens occupy the northwest and 
southwest comers. Three large tables are in 
the center of the room. 

10. The Great Hall 


The walls of this room are hung with rich 
tapestries, fresh rushes are strewn on the 
floor, and the north and south walls each 
contain a huge unlit fireplace. In the cen 
ter of a dais on the west side of the room is 
an eastern facing throne with a table in 
front of it. The lower eastern portion of 
the room contains two similar tables but 
with less ostentatious benches arranged 
along both sides. 


11. Guardpost 

Three mcks are always on guard here. 
They will open the secret door at area 3 if they 
hear three knocks. If hard-pressed in a fight, 
the meks escape through the secret door to 
the west. One goes to area 12 for help, 
another warns Coiger in area 14, and the last 
one flees to area 9. 

12. Officers' Mess 


This large room contains numerous bunks 
and chests arranged in an orderly fashion. 
Four men sit around a large square table 
in the room's center. Two large metallic 
creatures, one in the northwest comer, the 
other in the southeast comer stand guard. 


The creatures arc meks on duty as officers' 
body guards. The four men, Coiger's officers 
and level 10 magic-users, use the following 
spells when aware of the party: 


Spells 

Level I: charm, magic missile, shield 
Level II: ESP, mirror image, phantasmal 
force 

Level III: dispel magic, fireball, haste 
Level IV: dimension door, piolymorph 
others, wall of fire 
Level V: magic jar, teleport 

All four officers have been outfitted with 
potions of speed, wands of lightning bolts, 
and rings of protection +4. 

Two of the bunks have hollow compart 
ments. In one lies four 2,000 gp gems and a 
spell book containing the spells listed above. 
In the other lies two 1,000 gp gems and a 
pearl and silver necklace worth 3,500 gp. 

13. Office 

Where Coiger keeps his records and docs 
his accounting; the room has a desk, chair, 
and a small fireplace. 

The areas south of the office marked "S" 
indicate the servants' quarters. There is a 
30% chance that 1-4 servants are in the cubi 
cles when the PCs arrive. The servants flee 
without a fight if given a chance. 

14. The Temple 


This dimly lit room is dedicated to reli 
gious worship, but it is unclear as to what 
deity. To the cast, on square pedestals, 
stand two 10-foot-tall statues both depict 
ing lizardmen and each with four arms. 
The large figures each hold up two 
clenched fists and two crude, sputtering 
lamps in the other hands. 

Between the statues, a 20-foot-wide 
staircase rises 5 feet to a dais supporting a 
diamond-shaped soapstone altar. On the 
floor of the temple, in the prayer area, are 
rows of flat cushions. Everything seems 
quiet. 


The two statues are bronze golems. They 
animate one round after the PCs enter the 
temple and attack the party immediately. If 
the PCs flee, the golems do not pursue. 

Coiger, in area 15 with two meks and a 
hsiao construct, watches the PCs from a small 
peephole. If the golems start losing the melee, 
Coiger opens the secret door behind the altar 
and sends the two mcks to help the golems. 

Coiger then closes the passage and opens a 
small window which increases his armor class 
and that of the hsiao by 5 points. While the 
party fights the four monsters, Coiger and 
the hsiao cast spells, hindering the party and 


trying to prevent their entrance into area 15. 

If the creatures in area 14 are defeated, 
Coiger shuts the windows and backs into the 
other end of area 15. 

15. Coiger's Room 


This living area is lit by a subtle blood-red 
glow that falls softly from the ceiling and 
obscures the colors in the room. A man in 
heavy armor sits behind an imposing desk. 
His hands folded, he observes you quietly. 
The north wall is lined with bookshelves. 


The man at the desk is Coiger. Recogniz 
ing powerful foes he attempts to negotiate. If 
the party mentions the possibility of war in 
Norwold, Coiger offers an army of giants to 
help fight the invader with the provision that 
the party agrees to leave the lair, to return all 
valuables found therein, and to set him free. 
His offer appears to be honest and if neces 
sary, Coiger will swear on his deity, at the 
altar, that he speaks the truth. He will also 
reveal notes from his diary concerning a visi 
tor from the north who may be tied to the war 
(see end of encounter). 

In addition Coiger will also return any plun 
der from the earlier giant raid on the PC or 
NPC dominion. The pillaging was conducted 
by "uncontrolled" elements within his troops. 
Coiger did not order the pilferage and is still 
investigating the cause of the insubordination. 

If the party agrees to Coiger's terms, he 
will spend ld4 weeks raising hiB army (see 
army rosters in Chapter Four). If the party 
imprisons him, he will not resist, but will 
await an opportunity to break away. 

The bookshelves contain hundreds of vol 
umes of assorted books and scrolls, detailing 
everything from the linguistic history of the 
common tongue to legends about artifacts. In 
order to confuse any rivals, Coiger has falsi 
fied the legends about artifacts. 

The room is well furnished. A wardrobe 
contains ceremonial vestments for use in the 
temple. Their total value is 12,000 gp. 

A large cabinet near the bookshelves is 
filled with a large supply of writing and draw 
ing equipment, normal adventuring equip 
ment and 7 potions: rainbow hues, dying, 
speed, treasure Ending, luck, fire giant con 
trol, and healing. 

The desk has three drawers, each locked 
and trapped with darts. The traps are well hid 
den with a -25% penalty to find traps roll, 
and very difficult to disarm; - 50% penalty to 
remove traps roll. If triggered, one dart is fired 
straight up and two are fired ahead. They have 


10 








Chapter Two: COIGER'S LAIR 


an effective THACO of _ 1 inflicting 1-4 
points of damage, and automatically para 
lyze any creature they hit for lOd 10 rounds or 
until a neutralize poison is applied 

The first drawer contains assorted writing 
implements and materials, and a pouch con 
taining six 5.000 gp gems. The second 
drawer contains the latest three volumes of 
Coiger's journals detailing his travels and 
adventures. At the DM's option, these may 
lead the PCs to some new adventuring 
grounds. If the journal is studied carefully, 
the PCs will find an entry dated six months 
ago describing an unsuccessful attempt by 
Baron Norlan at enlisting Coiger in a raid 
against Norwold. 

In the diary, the cleric wrote his belief that 
the baron has fantastic war schemes, perhaps 
involving Thvatis Coiger also mentions a 
rendezvous point near the city of Oceansend, 
two weeks after the party reads the book. 

The third drawer contains Coiger's master 
ledger, listing the entire contents of the lair 
treasury (sec area 17). If the PCs study the 
ledger carefully, they will discover many 
entries marked "beholders' pay." 

16. Chasm 


A huge chasm, plunging downward, lies 
ahead of the path. A hot, moist, sulphu 
rous draft rises from it, and a veil of steam 
covers the bottom. A rope bridge of dubi 
ous sturdiness stretches from an outcrop 
ping on your side of the cleft to a similar 
outcropping on the other side. Hovering 
over the far end of the bridge is a large 
spherical object with numerous curious 
bristles sprouting from its top. The area 
around the object is dotted with skeletons. 


The maximum depth of the chasm is 250 
feet and the walls are difficult to climb 
I - 50% penalty to the climb roll). Any char 
acter falling into the chasm will suffer 20d6 of 
damage, and an additional 2d8 from the 
steam. Descending to within 20 feet or less of 
the bottom will cause 2d8 points of heat dam 
age for each round. A resist fire spell or a ring 
of fire resistance reduces the damage to 2d4 
each round, but will not totally negate the 
damage. 

The bridge, despite its appearance, is 
stoudy built but slippery from the rising 
steam. Any character moving along the 
bridge is limited to a movement of 30 feet per 
round (40 feet for thieves), and once each 
round must roll under his Dexterity with 
2dl0 or slip into the chasm. 


While fighting on the bridge all Dexterity 
bonuses to armor class are negated, attacks 
are made at ~ 4 to hit, and ACs are penalized 
+ 4. Characters fighting on the bridge must 
roll for slipping twice a round. 

Beholders: undead and normal 

The spherical object at the far end of the 
bridge is an undead beholder. Moving over 
the chasm to attack the PCs when it sees 
them, the undead beholder will use a dispel 
magic (eyestalk #9) against obvious spellcast- 
ers and animate object (eyestalk #8) to throw 
small stones and hinder spell casting. The 
beholder will direct its energy drains (eye- 
stalks #5 and #6) versus heavily armored 
fighters. 

One character will be chosen at random to 
be the victim of eyestalk #10 ( telekinesis) that 
will try to drop the victim into the chasm 
Eyestalk #1 will animate the 20 skeletons 
around the beholder which attack the fighters 
coming off the bridge. Any remaining eye- 
stalks will be used against PCs approaching 
the beholder. 

Lurking in the steam below the bridge is a 
normal beholder that works for pay. Staying 
close to the cover of the mist, he rises slightly, 
but remains below the lip of the chasm. 
Attacking with its eyes as the undead 
beholder does, the paid beholder concen 
trates all of its cyestalks on a single target. 

If more than two PCs arc on the bridge at 
any time, the normal beholder uses its teleki 
nesis to twist the bridge. A PC may avoid the 
fall if he roll his Dexterity or less on 2dl0 ? 4. 

The undead beholder fights to the death. 
The normal beholder retreats into the steam 
if it suffers 50% damage to its body, the loss of 
half of its small eyes, or if the undead 
beholder is killed. 

The normal beholder's treasure lies hidden 
in a fissure at the bottom of the chasm. The 
hoard contains 10,552 gp, 2,413 pp, 6,500 gp 
gems, and 12 eggs of wonder, all lying loose. 
Bagging the treasure takes a single character 
two turns. 

17. Treasury 

The two doors to this room arc both locked 
and trapped. The north door's trap causes 
several thousand pounds of loose rock and 
stalactites to fall when the door is opened. 
Very difficult to detect or remove with _ 50% 
penalty to both rolls (dwarves detect this trap 
on a roll of I), if the trap is trigggered the 
entire shaded area will be covered by a pile of 
debris 6 feet deep, the north wall will be 
blocked and any character within the shaded 


area will suffer 6-60 points of damage (saving 
throw vs Turn to Stone for half). Clearing the 
door will require three turns of digging. 

The south door has a 28th level magical 
trap that can only be detected magically. It 
can be removed only with a successful dispel 
magic. The trap casts a slay living spell at the 
character who opens the door and a slay liv 
ing at the third character who passes through 
it. 

There are six large and 76 small chests in 
the treasury. Two of the large ones contain 25 
gold bars, each weighing 400 cn (value 350 gp 
per chest). The other four each hold 25 silver 
bars (weight 400 cn, value 35 gp). 

One small chest contains 25 1,000 gp gems 
and an assortment of jewelry worth a total 
20,000 gp. The remainder each hold coins; 
20 hold copper, 28 hold silver, 18 hold gold, 
and nine hold platinum. There are two bags 
of coins in each chest, each holding 250 coins. 

Half the chests are covered with a contact 
poison which causes death. A saving throw 
negates, but the victim still suffers 4-16 points 
of damage. 


11 




Chapter Three: NIGHT OF THE BEETLES 


This chapter is divided into two sections. 
Section A contains notes on some of the disas 
ters listed in the D&D(r) Companion set, 
(Book 2, page 10). Section B contains details 
on an adventure which must be played to end 
one of the disasters. 

Section A 
Encounter Setting 

A few days after the end of Chapter One, 
Alphaks brings a disaster down on each PC's 
home dominion. If the PCs have attacked 
Coiger (see Chapter Two), the disasters occur 
while the PCs are away. The DM should not 
correct the players if they think Coiger is 
responsible nor should the DM hint at the 
real cause. 

Alphaks uses these disasters, which occur 
simultaneously in the Pc's various domin 
ions, to confound the party and to hinder its 
preparations for war. If only one dominion is 
available, the DM should choose the disaster 
best suited to the situation. 

Assassination 

This event is appropriate for any PC with 
out dominions. 

The commander of the flying castle (see 
Chapter Five) has a favored henchman of a 
PC murdered. The assassins carry away the 
body and the commander demands a ran 
som. It should be about 5% of the annual 
dominion income, of the current dominion 
treasury, or of the PC's personal savings, 
whichever is greatest. The ransom demanded 
should also include at least one magical item 
that the PC owns but docs not use often. A 
mujina is sent to collect the ransom. 

If the PCs attack the creature, it will surren 
der and reveal only what it knows; when and 
where it was to deliver the ransom. If the PCs 
go to this location, the character who had dream 
five in Chapter One will recognize it as the place 
depicted there. Two months and a half after this 
encounter, the flying castle will appear at the 
indicated spot. Run Chapter Five if the party is 
in the proper location when the castle arrives. 
'Die kidnapped body will be kept in the flying 
castle's warden (area 15). 

Usurper 

Alphaks sent an adaptor to impersonate a 
PC and usurp power in his dominion. Until 
the party confronts it, the adaptor will rule in 
the PC's stead and will fight until reduced to 
20% of its original hit points. It will then 
attempt to escape using its plane-walking 
ability. 


A few days after usurping power, the adap 
tor establishes a series of outraging new 
taxes. With the dominion near the point of 
revolt, the PC, when first seen, is likely to be 
attacked by his own subjects. The ruler will 
need to do some fast talking or be forced to 
kill his own subjects. Otherwise, the PC and 
the party will be locked up until the domin 
ion's retainers realize the usurper is still at 
large. A trial to discern who the true leader is 
will take place. 

When power is rightfully restored, most or 
the PC's subjects will not understand that 
there was a usurper. Instead, they will sadly 
remember the usurper's reign as the PC's 
"time of madness." 

Raiders from 
Another Dominion 

In this event, an NPC attacks a neighbor 
ing PC's dominion. The strength of the 
auack depends on the resources of the neigh 
boring dominion. Ifdetailson these resources 
are not known, use one of the forces listed in 
the army roster in Chapter Four. 

Sparked by false information planted by 
Alphaks, the raids occur because the aggres 
sor believes the PC was planning an attack. 

This event could have varying effects on 
the PC's dominion, depending on how 
quickly it is resolved. At the very least, the 
dominion will lose income due to resources 
captured or destroyed by the raiders. At 
worst, the PC and his neighbor could feud for 
a long time, which could interfere with their 
ability to participate effectively in the war. If 
either party answers King Ericall's call to 
arms late or with understrengthed forces, 
both will have to explain to the king. 

Earthquake 

The dominion is shaken by a series of local 
but severe earthquakes. Many buildings in 
the dominion are damaged causing a 25% 
reduction in the dominion's financial 
resources. The total cost of rebuilding the 
most important structures is equal to a whole 
year's revenues for the dominion. Mines each 
have a 50% chance of collapsing and cave-ins 
are considered destroyed. They must be 
abandoned because of the hazards they 
present and their income value should be 
deducted from the dominion's resources. 

When the PCs return to the dominion, 
entire villages will mass around the party's 
headquarters, begging for food and help. The 
party must spend at least a week touring the 
land to prevent looting and to direct the resto 


ration of the economy. If they do not, the 
dominion's resources will fall another 25% 
and its armed forces decrease to 66 % of their 
original troop strength. These declines occur 
progressively over a period of 10 days as sup 
plies dwindle and deserters go home to help 
their families. 

Section B should be played in connection 
to this disaster, but can used with any other 
disaster described in Section A. 

Section B 

As the partv lours the land, a large sink 
hole opens in its path. Each party member 
must roll ld20 under his Dexterity or fall into 
the chasm with his mount. Any creature fall 
ing into the sinkhole takes 8d6 points of dam 
age. 

At the bottom of the sinkhole a scries of 
tunnels lead to the adventure (see Map II). 

Subterranean 
Random Encounters 

1-3 Cave-In: a tremor produces a minor 
cave-in and loose rock falls from the ceil 
ings and walls inflicting 2dl0 points of 
damage on each character. A successful 
saving throw vs Turn to Stone indicates 
half damage. 

4-6 Earthquake Beetle: a newly created 
monster just happens by, and it is hungry 
(see Appendix). 

Encounter Key: 

1. Entry Cavern 

The sinkhole drops over 300 feet to this 
chamber. The bottom of the sinkhole is cov 
ered with sand and various debris and rubble 
from the surface. A tunnel opens to the south, 
leading to encounter 2. 

2. The Guide 


A 5-foot-squarc iron box sits in the middle 
of the passage, with the slits in the top and 
sides. They are so narrow that you can 
barely see someone inside. 

Peering out through the slits is a small 
reptilian face. Returning the creature's 
stare, you see it has two legs and tiny 
wings and you catch a glimpse of a pre 
cious metal draped around its neck. A 
well-filled leather sack is lying next to the 
creature. "Greetings from my master, 
heroes of Norwold," the creature says. 
"My name is Bill and I am your guide." 


12 





Chapter Three: NIGHT OF THE BEETLES 


Bill is an earth elemental drake. Alphaks 
has recruited him to guide the PCs through 
this adventure. He will never reveal that 
Alphaks is his master. 

The slits are too closely spaced to allow any 
melee of missile attacks to reach Bill. An anti 
magic shell continually operates within the 
confines of the box, rendering Bill immune to 
spell attacks while inside. The box's door, 
intended to keep the PCs out and not Bill in, 
is latched from the inside and the bars arc too 
closely spaced to allow the latch to be worked 
from the outside. A character can however, 
rip the box open with a 2 x Strength roll on 
percentile dice. 

If the PCs ask who Bill's master is, he 
replies, "Someone who doesn't like you." 
Upon attack. Bill tries only to avoid being 
hurt. The first time the party inflicts damage, 
he escapes using his magical collar which 
allows him to teleport to the Plane of Earth. 
The collar is good for only a single trip, for 
one creature and Bill will never return. The 
collar can be sold for 15,000 gp. 

After introducing himself. Bill pauses 
awaiting to see if the PCs take no hostile 
actions. He then says 


"The source of the earthquakes that 
plagued you is in these caverns. Unfortu 
nately for you more earthquakes are on 
the way, and their numbers arc about to 
increase astronomically. You see, there are 
five machines here that generate earth 
quakes. If you don't shut them down 
quickly, disaster will befall your land. 

"I am to accompany you as you seek 
out these five machines. I am to put to you 
a problem of logic each time you find one. 
When you answer correctly, I'll shut off 
the machine and it will destroy itself. If 
you fail, you must disable the machine 
yourself, as best you can Of course, you 
needn't accept my assistance. You can test 
your strength against all five machines if 
you wish, but I warn you that this may 
take precious lime. Do you wish my assist 
ance?" 


If the PCs agree. Bill will unlatch the box, 
step out. and change to his giant form. He 
then reaches into the box and pulls out the 
sack-a bag of holding with five keys and all 
the props for the puzzles listed in encounter 
3 Bill then stomps the box flat, destroying it. 

If the PCs attack Bill he will return to his 
plane and the party will have to physically 
destroy the machines. Alphaks has granted 
Bill immunity to charms, ESP, magic jar, rul- 


ership, hold person, and all other magics that 
affect the mind for the duration of his service 
as guide. Bill never takes damage from cave- 
ins or earthquake beetles, but he can be killed 
by the colossus in encounter 6. Bill never 
offers advice to the PCs, but he will engage in 
light conversation. He loves off-color jokes, 
and will squeal with delight if he is told one 
that he has not heard before. 

3. Monoliths 

Run this encounter each time the party 
enters an area numbered 3. 

Five magical sculptures are the source of 
the earthquakes. They are machines making 
earthquake beetles. Each sculpture is a flat 
monolith, 9 feet high, 4 feet wide and I foot 
thick. Twelve images of earthquake beetles 
are carved in low relief on their surfaces. 

Every two turns, one of these images 
broadens into three dimensions and drops 
off, expanding into an earthquake beetle 
statue about 10 feet long. At this stage in its 
development the construct has as many hit 
points as a live beetle, it has an AC of ~ 10 
and no attacks. The construct continues to 
grow at the rate of 10 feet per round until it 
reaches 40 feet when it becomes a live beetle 
with normal AC and one bite attack. 

If no characters attack the beetle, it will 
wander away from the monolith and con 
tinue to grow at the same rate until it reaches 
its full size of 100 feet. At this point it gains 
kick attacks. During its wanderings, particu 
larly during melee, the beetle may get stuck 
in a narrow tunnel and will have to burrow 
itself free. During that time, the beetle cannot 
bite, but the burrowing causes a tremor that 
will shake material from the cavern walls and 
ceiling. The tremor continues until the beetle 
is destroyed and ld20 points of damage are 
inflicted to any character attacking it. 

Alphaks has made it at once easy and diffi 
cult to stop the machines from making earth 
quake beetles. The monoliths can be 
completely de-activatcd by a two-step proc 
ess. Each monolith is keyed to a logical puzzle 
(a list of puzzles appears below). When a 
problem is presented and solved within 60 
feet of a monolith, a keyhole appears in its 
face. When one of the keys from Bill's bag of 
holding are fitted into this hole, the monolith 
crumbles to dust. 

The monoliths can withstand 75 points of 
damage before exploding. The explosion is 
harmless, but ldl2 beetles are projected 
around the area. Two spells have instantane 
ous special effects: disintegrate destroys the 
monolith completely and reduces the explo 


sion to ld4 constructs; dissolve destroys the 
monolith but increases the explosion's effect 
to 4d8 constructs. 

Each time the PCs discover a machine, Bill 
will give them one puzzle from the list below. 
Allow the whole group of players to think 
about the solutions. Reread the puzzle at the 
players' request. The time the players spend 
on the puzzle is equal to the time the PCs 
spend in the dungeon. Assume that ld6 min 
utes have elapsed between the forming of the 
last beetle and the presentation of the puzzle. 
Each monolith produces a beetle every two 
turns. 

Possession of Bill's keys does not enable the 
PCs to turn off the machines. Until the cor 
rect answer to a riddle is given there is no visi 
ble keyhole. Thus, a thief cannot attempt an 
open locks roll to shut a machine off. The 
DM can choose any five of the seven puzzles. 

Puzzle 1 - Chips off the Old Block 


Bill produces a small golden cube and says 
"This cube is actually only gold plated sil 
ver. Imagine, if you can, that you could 
divide each edge into three segments of 
equal length, thus dividing the cube into 
27 smaller cubes." He pauses to let this 
sink in. "The problem, ladies and germs, 
is this: how many of the small cubes would 
have three gold faces? How many would 
have two gold faces? How many would 
have only one gold face, and finally, how 
many cubes would have no gold faces at 
all? Give me the correct answer and I shall 
turn off this particular machine, and give 
you the cube, intact of course, to boot!" 


Solution: Eight cubes with three gold faces, 
12 cubes with two gold faces, six cubes with 
one gold face, and one cube with no gold 
faces. The Cube weighs 200 cn and has a 
value of 18gp. 

Puzzle 2 - Crack the Boxes 


Bill produces three small golden caskets. 
"You will notice, gentlcbcings, that each 
of these little beauties bears a label, one's 
labeled 'Black-Black'; one's labeled 'Red- 
Red'. and one's labeled 'Black-Red'. 
Now it just so happens that these three lit 
tle beauties contain six equally beautiful 
gems. One holds two red rubies, one holds 
two opals, each as black as night, and the 
third holds one of each. Trouble is, all the 
labels are wrong. 


13 







Chapter Three: NIGHT OF THE BEETLES 


Your problem is this: you may look at 
any one gem in any one casket, from that, 
you must tell me the correct contents of 
each casket. If you tell me the answer the 
loot's all yours and I'll shut this machine 
off for you." 


Solution: There are two ways the gems can be 
arranged inside the caskets. Since all the labels 
are wrong, the casket marked "Black-Red" 
must contain two identical gems. Therefore the 
casket to choose from is "Black-Red." If the 
gem is a ruby, so is the other. Then "Red-Red" 
holds two opals, and "Black-Black" holds a 
ruby and an opal. If the gem taken from 
'Black-Red" is an opal, so is the other. Then 
Red-Red" holds a ruby and an opal, and 
Black-Black" holds two rubies. 

Each casket weighs 150 cn and is worth 300 
gp. The gems are worth 500 gp each. 

Puzzle 3 - Who's Guilty 


Bill turns to you and says "And you 
thought you were sharp! One of these four 
gentlemen here..." (four humanoids in 
leather armor fade into visibility next to 
Bill), .is of the thieving persuasion and 
has purloined an item from one of you. 
This item in fact." 

Bill holds up one magical item owned by a 
PC and selected by the DM. The item has 
been stolen, and no precautions, magical or 
otherwise, will prevent the theft. 

"These gentlemen are the ore, the 
kobold, the goblin and the ogre. Each will 
now make a statement. The culprit will 
lie, and the other three will tell the truth." 

"The goblin pilfered it, that wimp" 
laughs the ore. "It certainly wasn't me" 
whines the kobold "The ore's lying 
through his filthy teeth" mumbles the 
goblin. "Nah, the kobold and the goblin 
didn't do it" rumbles the ogre. 

"Now then," announces Bill, "tell me 
which one took it and I'll give it back, and 
shut off this here machine." 


Solution: With only one lie, one of the two 
thieves that contradicted each other has to be 
the liar Since the Ogre is telling the truth, the 
culprit has to be the Ore. 

Puzzle 4 - Seven Loaves 


Bill turns to you and says. "Here's a tale 
of three adventurers, a fighter, a cleric and 



a thief. Due to misadventure, the trio got 
themselves lost in a dungeon at dinner 
time. As it happened, the fighter was 
packing four loaves of bread, the thief had 
three loaves of bread, and the cleric had 
none. Being comrades of the best sort, the 
thief and the fighter shared their loaves 
with the cleric so that everyone ate equal 
portions. After the meal was done, to 
show his appreciation, the cleric offered to 
the thief and fighter these seven platinum 
pieces I now have here (Bill holds out 
seven pp). 

"The problem is this: if the fighter and 
the thief split the coins according to the 
amount each contributed to the cleric's 
meal, and they didn't make change for 
any of them, how many coins did each 
get? Tell me that and the coins are yours 
and I'll shut'er off for you." 


Solution: Since there were seven loaves 
divided equally among three, each character 
ate 2 1/3 loaves Therefore, the fighter con 
tributed 1 2/3 loaves, and the thief contrib 
uted 2/3 of a loaf. Each character received 
one coin for each 1/3 loaf contributed. The 
fighter gave the cleric 5/3 loaves, and got five 
coins, and the thief got two coins for his 2/3 
loaf. 

Puzzle 5 - Four Minutes and Only 
Four 


Bill turns to you and says: "Here's a story 
of noble courtesy. One cold, rainy night a 
knight called on a baron's castle and asked 


for shelter as was his privilege. The baron 
agreed. For his breakfast the next morn 
ing, the knight asked only for a single 
boiled egg (he was on a quest you sec), to 
be boiled exactly four minutes The baron 
ordered it done. 

Unfortunately for the scullery page, the 
castle only had a three minute timer and a 
five minute timer. The page, who knew 
his numbers, quickly saw that three from 
five leaves two, exactly half the time 
needed. If he started both timers at once 
he could start the egg when the three min 
ute timer ran out. But as there were only 
two timers, there wasn't time to get them 
reset, so he had to interrupt the boiling of 
the egg. 

"Disgusted by the boy's crude efTort, 
the baron made the page start again with a 
fresh egg. The baron then showed the 
page how to boil the egg for an unintcr- 
ruped four minutes. 

"Here's your problem: assuming that 
only the two timers were used, and that 
the timers were sand glasses, how did the 
baron do it? As always. I'll give you some 
thing nice if you give me the correct 
answer, and turn this machine off for 
you." 


Solution: Without putting the egg in the 
water, the baron started both timers. When 
the three minute timer ran out he reversed it, 
leaving two minutes on the five minute timer. 
When the five minute timer ran out he 
reversed it, leaving one minute on the three 
minute timer. When the three minute timer 
ran out there were four minutes left on the 


14 










Storm at Dawn Rising 


Map Key 


A: Fire giants with mantels 
B: Fire giants with ram 


C: Hell hounds 

D: Fire giants with boulders 


Dragon #1 


1986 TSR Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed In O.S.A. 


y-i 


' 




|1 

ll 













Map II Coiger's Lair 



Map Key 


1 

} 

Door 


Rope bridge 

-1 

f 

1 way door 

? 

Metal plate 

< 


Secret door 

B 

Ballista 

; 

Portcullis 

S 

Servant 


Murder Hole 

PR 

Weapon rack 

llll" 

Stair* 

R 

Ratchet 


Sinkhole 

(c) 

Statue 

? 

Altar 

 

Stone 


Scale: 1 square - 10 feet 


1986 TSR Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed In U.S.A. 









n H 


mmm 


i 

in 

p 

w 





















I 




JJ Fountain 
M* Stairs 
Curtain 
Portcullis 


|f 1 Trap door 

Throne 
Magic door 


Level C 


Level D 


Level E 


Level F 


*1986 TSR Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed In U.S.A. 


















Chapter Three: NIGHT OF THE BEETLES 



five minute timer, so he put the egg in and 
boiled it until the five minute timer ran out. 

If the PCs solve this problem. Bill will give 
each of them a simple, cold, four minute egg, 
fresh and edible. 

Puzzle 6 - Endless Chain 


Bill produces nine lengths of platinum 
chain and says "You will notice that three 
of these segments of chain have six links, 
two have five links, one has four links, one 
has three links, one has seven links, and 
one has eight links. Now suppose you 
want to join all dtese segments together to 
form an endless chain, a circle. You take 
these nine segments to a smith who 
charges one cp to break a link and 10 cp to 
weld a link back together. 

"Your problem: What's the least 
amount of money you'll have to spend in 
order to get your endless chain, give me 
the answer and you'll get these little seg 
ments of chain to do with as you will, and 
I'll turn this machine off for you." 


Solution: The easist way to get the endless 
chain is to break one link from each segment 
and weld them back together, this costs 99 cp, 
but if the eight link segment was broken up 
and the eight links used to join the remaining 
eight segments the cost would be 88 cp: how 
ever if the three link segment and the four 
link segment were broken up the seven links 
would join the remaining segments for only 
77 cp. The segments are worth a total of 250 
gP 


Puzzle 7 - How many Colors 


"Here's a story about map-making," Bill 
quips. "In the mythical kingdom of Peddi- 
choria, the royal cartographer was busy pre 
paring a map of the country's 57 counties. 
Now the strange thing about Peddichoria is 
that each of the 57 counties is in the shape of 
a regular hexagon. After drawing the map, 
the cartographer busily started mixing vari 
ous colors to paint the map. 

"My question to you is: exactly how 
many colors did the cartographer use, 
assuming that he used the least number 
possible? You'll each receive a gift if you 
discover the answer, and of course, I'll 
turn the machine off for you." 


Solution: The answer is three. This cannot be 
proven mathematically, but one can prove by 
demonstration that no map made up of hexa 
gons requires more than three colors, (no 
two-dimensional map of any sort requires 
more than four colors). 

If the PCs solve this puzzle, Bill will give 
each one ajar of paint, but he'll give out no 
more than three different colors. 

4. Purple Death 


A huge creature that looks like a bloated 
purple snake with an insect's head is tear 
ing apart the carcass of a freshly killed 
earthquake beedc and stuffing massive 
chucks of meat into its toothy mouth. It 
looks up from its grizzly meal and glares at 
you for a fleeting moment, then lumbers 
to the attack. Bill gurgles out a frightened 


screech, turns back into a small dragon 
and flutters into the air. 


The creature is a purple worm. Tunneling 
in while hunting, it is now looking for some 
thing different to eat. After it has attempted 
to swallow one PC whole, it will retreat and 
attempt to lose the party in a maze of tunnels 
(sec next encounter). 

5. Earthquake Beetle Tunnels 

These passages are ribbed with clawmarks 
from the creatures that dug them. They go 
for miles, twisting and turning and climbing 
and dipping, reducing visibility to a maxi 
mum of 40 feet. Movement along the tunnels 
is reduced by 50%, except for very large or 
flying creatures 

There is a 10% chance per round a tunnel 
will collapse on the party. When the debris 
starts falling, start a slow countdown from 10 
to 0. If the PCs evacuate the area before the 
countdown reaches 0, the party is safe when 
the cave-in occurs. If a PC still remains in the 
tunnel, the character takes 3d 100 points of 
damage and is buried under 3d6 tons of rub 
ble. It will take the party ld4 days to excavate 
the area with normal means. 

Ending Section B 

When the last monolith has been shut off or 
destroyed, Bill disappears, going back to the 
Plane of Earth. Shortly thereafter the caverns 
begin to collapse. The PCs have two turns to 
escape or they will be buried forever. During 
the two turns, each character suffers 2d 10 
points of damage from falling debris. The 
party can exit the sinkhole (area I) by means 
of a newly developed crack that slopes toward 
the surface. 


19 











Chapter Four: CHAOS RETURNS 


Encounter Setting 

Note: This chapter is played concurrently 
with Chapter Five. 

This chapter outlines the struggle that 
occurs once Alphaks has set his war plans in 
motion. The war should break out two weeks 
after the party has met Coiger. It may start 
whether the party is ready for war or not. At 
the moment the first battle starts, the PCs 
may still be busy dealing with disasters in 
their dominions, on their way to a city, or 
seeking the secret rendezvous point near 
Oceansend (sec Chapter Two). 

A timetable of troop movements and bat- 
des appears below, explaining where the var 
ious armies move and what the objectives 
are. Time and the position of each force in 
Norwold are the most important factors. 
Their travel speeds should be followed when 
moving troops. 

The third section of this chapter contains a 
roster of all the forces likely to fight in 
Norwold. If the players are using prerolled 
characters, they will also find their military 
forces in the army roster. 

When the battle starts let the players con 
trol all of the troops fighting against Baron 
Norlan, Thyatis, and Alphatia. 

The general combat map (Map V) that 
appears on the module cover indicates the 
major armies' objectives as well as their 
intended movements. It will be worthwhile to 
quickly sketch out an area map on a blank 
sheet of hex paper whenever two armies 
move into the same hex. These combat maps 
(scale: I mile per hex) do not have to be 
detailed, but arc sufficient if they allow troop 
movement and combat maneuvers. 

When the war starts, run it in battle turns 
of one week. Whenever batdes occur or when 
troops are close by, run the war in battle 
rounds of one day. Use the Sea Machine rules 
on page 24 whenever battles occur at sea. 

Battle Forces 

Baron Norlan of Qeodhar, 

Kjavik of Norzec 

The baron's plan is to raid the coast of 
Norwold, conquering as many city ports and 
bridgeheads as possible. His perceived moti 
vation is to collect booty to give to the Alpha- 
tian petty nobles, but his true plan is betray 
the young Alphatian lords and turn over his 
conquests to Thyatis. 

The ruler of Thyatis secredy awaits the 
baron's signal. On the day it comes, Thyatis 
will move in and take the young nobles by 
surprise. Seeking his revenge, the baron 


hopes the imprisonment of the petty nobles 
by Alphatia's historic enemy Thyatis will 
bring the mighty and proud Alphatia into 
war. 

In addition to his treachery and armies, the 
baron also has at his disposal, at the start of 
the war at least, a magical flying casdc that he 
can use for tactical support. He may use the 
casdc in battle or simply to disorganize the 
enemy's back lines. A gift from the Alphatian 
empress's son, the castle is the only one of its 
kind. 

The flying castle 

This Alphatian marvel belongs to Eriadna 
the Wise, current empress of Alphatia. Her 
son, who joined Baron Norlan's forces, man 
aged to get the casdc to support the raid on 
Norwold. A powerful tactical weapon, add a 
+ 30 for the purposes of battle to the force 
within the casdc. Negating all siege bonuses 
of a defending force, the defending troops 
that oppose the castle are not quadrupled 
when determining combat ratios. Because 
the castle can fly above any wall, defending 
troops do not benefit from (he + 50 bonus for 
being in a fortress or walled city. 

For each week the castle disrupts the lines 
of supply in the rear of Norwold's forces, 
reduce one of the king's unit's BR 10 points. 
When the castle's commander realizes that 
Thyatis has replaced the baron's forces, the 
casdc flies back to Alphatia (provided the 
party has not destroyed it yet). 

The Southern Empire 
of Thyatis 

Thincol the Brave, ruler of Thyatis, has 
instructed his troops to take over Baron 
Norlan's enclaves at the baron's signal. By 
capturing Alpha, Norwold's capital and larg 
est city, Thincol hopes to break the final 
resistance in Norwold. 

Thincol, confident that his troops can 
destroy King EricaU's loyalists, is wary of 
Alphatian intervention. Recognizing Alpha 
tia's influence and interest in the region, and 
hoping to keep them away, Thincol plans to 
blackmail Alphatia by threatening to kill the 
young nobles unless Alphatia stays out of the 
war. 

At the DM's discretion as to location, Thy 
atis has a number of minor allies in Norwold 
(see Army Roster). 

King EricaU's Loyalists 

The King of Norwold has a number of 
loyal troops that will immediately enter the 


war on his side. The king will seek to stop the 
raiders and defend his capital against any 
attacks. In an attempt to enlist the support of 
neutral forces Ericall will enter into negotia 
tion with such parties, (see Neutral Forces 
below). At the discretion of the DM as to 
location, the king has a number of minor 
allies in Norwold. 

Norwold Neutral Forces 

These troops belong to separate dominions 
with few tics to any of the belligerents, but 
they are most closely aligned with King Eri 
call. If the players are using pre-rolled char 
acters as PCs, they will control the 
corresponding troops described in this sec 
tion. The players are free to declare their 
dominions as allies of King Ericall at any 
time. If the players are not using these char 
acters, they should be considered neutral 
NPCs and remain in their dominions until 
activated. The exact location of all neutral 
forces at the beginning of the battle is at the 
discretion of the DM. 

Anytime a force loyal to King Ericall 
comes to the border of a neutral force, there is 
a 60% chance the neutral force will align with 
the royalist army. Reduce the percentage 5% 
for each of King EricaU's defeats and increase 
the figure 5% for each of the king's victories. 

The Mighty, Ancient 
Empire of Alphatia 

In order of priorities Alphatia hopes to stop 
Thyatis, restore order to Norwold, and sanc 
tion King Ericall for his lack of allegiance to 
the empire. Alphatians are seeking to reaf 
firm their supremacy over Norwold and 
break its growing trend toward indepen 
dence. 

If Thyatis holds six or more young nobles, 
Alphatia will not intervene until the end of 
the war. If Thyatis does not have the required 
number of nobles, Alphatia will intervene. 

Capturing 
Alphatian Nobles 

Within the baron's troops that conduct the 
first raids are 12 young Alphatian nobles, one 
of whom is the youngest son of the empress. 
His presence is unknown to all but Baron 
Norlan and Thincol the Brave. Each time the 
baron loses a battle, Id4 nobles may be cap 
tured by the PCs' forces. The imperial prince 
will be among the prisoners with a score of 1 
on ldl2. 

When the nobles are captured, Thincol 


20 



Chapter Four: CHAOS RETURNS 


will immediately send a message to Alpbatia 
and negotiate Alphatia's nonintervention in 
exchange for the nobles' safety. Assume the 
imperial prince is worth four nobles. 

If they have captured a sufficient number 
of nobles, the PCs, too, can blackmail Alpha- 
tia. The empress will ask for proof (the 
nobles' family rings for example), enabling 
her to know her son's fate even if the PCs do 
not know his true identity. 

If either Thyatis or the PCs have captured 
Norlan, they may add him to the list of nobles 
and turn him over to Alphatia. Norlan is 
worth one noble for purposes of negotiation. 
If the baron is sent to Alphatia, no one will 
ever hear of him again. 

Forced Marching 
Land Troops 

Any land troop of Average or better Troop 
Class may advance 50% faster by forced 
marching. This costs the unit 1 BR per day of 
forced march. The unit must stop and rest 
after losing 20% of its BR forced marching. 
BRs can be recovered at the rate of 2 per day 
of rest. If the battle occurs during summer, 
ignore the limitations on troop movement in 
the War Machine rules (page 16 of the DM 
Companion Book Two). 

Battle Timetable 

Week l: Baron Norlan attempts to attack 
Oceansend by surprise with units #1, #3, and 
#4. The baron hired traitors inside the city to 
drug part of the defending forces and their 
leaders and to open the gates at the moment 
of the attack Occansend's defenders will lose 
all siege bonuses and suffer a - 20 penalty on 
the War Machine Combat Result Table. 

The penalty can be negated if the PCs 
arrive in Oceansend three days before the 
imminent attack and warn King Yaarvik. 
The PCs may add any of their troops to the 
city's defending forces. 

If Oceansend falls, Yarrvik retreats north 
to join King Ericall's army, and units #1 and 
#4 remain to hold the city. If the baron fails to 
take Oceansend, units #1 and #4 remain to 
besiege the city for live weeks. If that fails, 
they give up the battle and sail to Helskir for 
supplies. 

The Dying castle, on the way to Norwold, 
is not available for the first battle. 

Week 4: Baron Norlan's units #2 and #3 
attempt to capture Landfall as the Dying cas 
tle raids the rear of EricaU's troops until week 
#8 It then Dies to the village to pick up the 


ransom (see Chapter Three). The party may 
storm the castle if they are in the village when 
week 9 begins. 

If the baron takes Landfall, unit #2 
remains to occupy the city. Landfall's surviv 
ing forces surrender and remain in the city 
under the baron's control. 

If the baron fails to take the city, both units 
sail to Helskir for supplies and repair. Lernal 
the Swill, governor of the city, remains in 
control of this pirate haven. 

Week 10: All of Baron Norlan's available 
troops reach and attack Alpha. The task force 
consists of all forces present in Helskir after 
week 3 (that is, some or all troops from units 
#1, #2, #4, and unit #3), and half of his forces 
in Oceansend and Landfall (possibly units 
#1, #2 and #3). The Dying castle is also 
present. 

If the baron succeeds, all the forces present 
occupy the city, otherwise a siege begins. If 
the siege fails after three weeks all of the bar 
on's forces leave the area. 

Week 15: If the baron failed to take Alpha, he 
then disembarks northwest from Oceansend 
("X" on Map V) with any remaining forces 
and orders his troops to dig out defensive 
positions facing land. If there are enemy 
troops there, the baron will try to land farther 
south and avoid a battle. The castle will raid 
the rear of the king's troops. 

Week 16: Baron Norlan signals Thyatis to 
come in during the night and take possession 
of any captured city (and of the beachhead if 
applicable). Unit #1 will agree to fight for 
Thyatis and unit #2 skillfully Dees the area. 
To avoid diplomatic difficulties, Thyatis 
agrees to let units #3 and #4 return to their 
home ports. The commander of the Dying 
casde, ld4 days later, will realize the treach 
ery and Dy back to Alphatia. 

Spread Thyatian forces evenly within the 
various captured sites. If the baron has failed 
to seize a single port, Thyatis turns back and 
the war comes to an end. 

Week 19: If Alpha has not been captured, or 
it has been retaken by the king, Thincol 
orders his minor allies to occupy Oceansend 
and Landfall. Then, all Thyatian units board 
their transport Beets and sail to Alpha and 
attempt to take or retake the capital. 

Forces under Ericall's authority are 
ordered to return to the city and defend it or 
retake it if it is occupied by the enemy. If King 
Ericall loses the battle, he surrenders to Thy 
atis and neutrals return to their dominions. 


Troops designated as Loyalists from the 
beginning of the battle will now be under 
Thincol's control. 

If Thyatis loses the battle, its forces retreat 
to the coast and head home. If none of their 
Dccts are available, they surrender to King 
Ericall. 

Week 20: If Thyatis does not control six or 
more Alphatian nobles, the mighty empire 
sends its interventionist army and the Dying 
castle, now under Alphatian control, to take 
the city of Alpha. They arrive at the end of 
week 20, through a magical gate located 
north of Regent Pass. 

If King Ericall controls Alpha, the Alpha 
tian goal is to destroy as many forces as they 
can and occupy the city of Alpha. 

Ending the War 

If Thyatis controls Alpha at the end of 
week #20, then Thyatis wins the war and con 
trols all Loyalist dominions and forces in 
Norwold. More troops are brought in from 
Thyatis. Alphatia, in a position of weakness, 
will seek to recover the young nobles 
(whether dead or alive) by negotiation or 
magic-use. Wishes may be helpful. 

If Alphatia controls Alpha at the end of 
week 20, King Ericall is returned to his 
throne but must sign a treaty making 
Norwold a permanent colony of Alphatia, 
under full control of the empress. An adviser 
from Alphatia will remain in the palace to 
advise the king on the proper conducts of his 
realm. A strong Alphatian garrison, the 
strength of the Alphatian interventionist 
force, remains within the city. The Queen's 
Guard, the historic protectors of Norwold's 
capital, is disbanded and the principal com 
manders of the Royal Army of Norwold are 
replaced with more trusted Alphatian offi 
cers. 

If King Ericall controls Alpha at the end of 
week 20, any Alphatian or Thyatian troops 
leave the land and the king declares 
Norwold's independence. All the nobles who 
have fought well on his side arc appropriately 
rewarded with new lands and new titles. 
Those who acted cowardly are stripped of all 
their possessions and banished from Norwold 
forever. 


21 




ROSTERS 


Army Roster 

A. Baron Norlan's Mercenaries 

1. Force: THONIAN MERCENARY 
RAIDERS 

Leader: Baron Norlan, F18 
Location: Lands of Thonia 
No of Troops: 5,000 

Type: 2,500 horsemen with lance/swords; 
1,000 horsemen with bow/sword; 1,500 
spellcasting pegataurs with bow/sword. 

BR: 145, Troop Class: Good 

2. Force: PIRATES OF M1NAEA 
Leader: Krondell the One-Eyed, F20 
Location: Western Minaea 

BR: 109, Av. Speed 18/90 miles/day 
Troop Class: Average. Fleet Class: Average 

80 Longships: 60 HP each, Artillery 

Total Hull Points: 4,800 
Seamen: 4,000 (8,000 HD) 

Men in Fleet: 4,000 

Seamen: 60% bows; 40% pikes/swords. 

BR on Land: 106 

3. Force: ALPHAT1AN NOBLES' 
WARFLEET 

Leader: Admiral Zhenggys, F12 
Location: Trollhattan 
BR: 123, Av. Speed 16/78 miles/day 
Troop Class: Excelent. Fleet Class: Good 

4 War Galleys: 150 HP each, Artillery, Ram 
8 Lg. Galleys: 120 HP each, Artillery, Ram 
25 Sm. Galleys: 100 HP each. Artillery, Ram 

Total Hull Points: 4,060 
Marines: 1,200(3,600 HD) 

Sailors: 840 (1,680 HD) Rowers: 3,140 
Men in Fleet: 5,280 

Marines: F3, 70% swords, 20% archers, 
10% spell casters. BR on land: 120. 

4. Force: MINROTHAD GUILD FLEET 
Leader: Meister Silbergeld, MU20 
Location: City of Minrothad 

BR: 35/85*, Av. Speed 72 miles/day 
Troop Class: Average.* Fleet Class: Average 

50 Troop Transports: 120 HP each 

Total Hull Points: 6,000 

Marines: none (see Thonian Mercenary 

Raiders) 

Sailors: 1,000 

Men in Fleet: 1,000 (6,000 with Thonians) 


* The Guild Fleet has been hired to transport 
unit #1 to their various military objectives. 
Only sailors remain to defend the fleet after 
unit #1 has disembarked. 

B. King Ericall's Loyalist Army 

5. Force: ROYAL ARMY OF NORWOLD 
Leader: King Ericall, F28 

Location: City of Alpha 
No. of Troops: 4,000 

Type: 2,500 swordsmen, 1,000 archers, 500 
horsemen. 

BR: 92, Troop Class: Good 

6. Force: ROYAL FLEET OF NORWOLD 
Leader: Admiral Dolnarys, F22 
Location: City of Alpha 

BR: 180, Av. Speed 30/72 miles/day 
7 Loop Class: Elite Fleet Class: Excelent. 

1 War Galley: 150 HP, Artillery, Ram 

6 Lg. Galleys: 130 HP each, Artillery, Ram 
15 Sm. Galleys: 80 HP each, Artillery, Ram 

2 Troop Transports: 140 HD each, Artillery 

Total Hull Points: 2,410 
Marines: 875 (1,750 HD) 

Sailors: 340 Rowers: 3,140 
Men in Fleet: 5,280 

Marines: F2, 20% long bow, 80% swordsmen; 
BR on Land: 166 

Troop Transports: 200 elves, E2, 100% bows 
and swords, spell casting, fight with the 
marines. 

7. Force: QUEEN'S GUARD 
Leader: Queen Christina, M12 
Location: City of Alpha 

No. of Troops: 500 

Type: 500 horsemen with lance and bows 
BR: 135, Troop Class: Excellent 

8. Force: KING'S MILITIA 
Leader: King Ericall, F28 
Location: 5 hexes of Alpha 
No. of Troops: 5,000 

Type: peasants armed with crude weapons 
BR: 32, Troop Class: Poor 

9. Force: REGENT PASS GARRISON 
Leader: Sire Rodnox, FI8 

Location: Regent Pass Fortress 
No. of Troops: 500 
Type: all archers and swordsmen 
BR: 117, Troop Class: Good 

10. Force: LANDFALL REGION 
Leader: Lemal the Swill, F6 
Location: City of Landfall 


No. of Troops: 2,000 

Type: 1,500 swordsmen, 500 archers 

BR: 79, Troop Class: Fair 

11. Force. COIGER'S HORDES 
Leader: Coiger de Mory, C34 
Location: Coiger's Lair 

No. of Troops: 900 

Type: 600 fire giants, 300 hell hounds 
BR: 112, Troop Class: Fair 

12. Force: SIR ERNEST'S FORCE 
Leader: Sir Ernest Day, FI6 
Location: Ernest's Dominion 

No. of Troops: 500 

Type: all archers and swordsmen 

BR: 79, Troop Class: Fair 

13. Force: RUTGER DAG'S FORCE 
Leader: Rutger Dag, FI5 
Location: Dag's Dominion 

No. of Troops: 500 

Type: horsemen with lances and swords 
BR: 85, Troop Class: Average 

14. Force: ALLISA PATRICIAN'S FORCE 
Leader: Allisa Patrician, F15 

Location: Patrician's Dominion 
No. of Troops: 600 
Type: 400 sword/pike; 200 archers 
BR: 92, Troop Class: Average 

C. Neutral Forces 

15. Force: HALFLINGS 
Leader: Collin the Sheriff, H8 
Location: City of Leeha 

No. of Troops: 1,500 

Type: all archers and swordsmen 

BR: 72, Troop Class: Fair 

16. Force: ARMY OF OCEANSEND 
Leader: King Yarrvik, F9 
Location: City of Oceansend 

No. of Troops: 6,000 

Type: 4,500 swordsmen, 1,500 archers 

BR: 75, Troop Class: Fair 

17. Force: OCEANSEND COMBAT 
SQUADRON 

Leader: Admiral Frothnard, F'7 
Location: City of Oceansend 
BR: 102, Av. Speed 35/78 hexes/day 
Troop Class: Good Fleet Class: Good 

4 Lg. Galleys: 120 HP each, Artillery, Ram 

5 Sm. Galleys: 80 HP each, Ram 
10 Lg. Sail Ships: 150 HD each 

Total Hull Points: 2,380 
Marines: 1,300(2,600 HD) 


22 


ROSTERS 


Sailors: 200 Rowers: 1,020 
Men in Fleet: 2,520 

Marines: F2, 20% long bow, 80% swordsmen; 
BR on Land: 103 

18. Force. DWARVES OF THE MOUN 
TAIN CLAN 

Leader: Gard Rocktooth, D7 

Location: Stormhaven 

No. of Troops: 1,000 

Type: all have hand and battle axes 

BR. 115, Troop Class: Excellent 

19. Force. BARBARIANS OF THE RED 
BANNER 

Leader: Barkal the Red, F10 
Location: anywhere north of the Great Bay 
BR. 75. Av. Speed 18/90 milcs/day 
Troop Class: Fair Fleet Class: Fair 

40 Longships: 80 HP each 

Total Hull Points: 3,200 

Seamen: 3,000 (6,000 HD), F2, all with two 

handed swords. BR on Land: 68. 

20. Force. PREROLLED CHARACTER #1 

Leader: Lord Trent the White 
Location: . 

No. of Troops: 600 

Type: all horsemen with lances and swords 
BR 90, Troop Class: Average 

21. Force: PREROLLED CHARACTER #2 

Leader: Sire Bardeen Longwalker 
Location- . 

No. of Troops: 500 

Type: all archers with swords 

BR. 95, Troop Class: Good 

22. Force. PREROLLED CHARACTER #3 

Leader: Lady Winnifrcd of the Lake 
Location: . 

No. of Troops: 400 

Type: 250 swondsmen/pikemen, 150 adepts 
BR 100, Troop Class: Average 

23. Force. PREROLLED CHARACTER #4 

Leader: Grand Master Adik de Chevas 
Location: . 

No. of Troops: 400 

Type: 350 archers, 50 seers; all mounted 
BR: 95. Troop Class: Average 

24. Force. PREROLLED CHARACTER #5 
Leader: Dame Lucci Dhay 

Location: . 

No. of Troops: 700 

Type: all tribesmen on horses 

BR : 80, Troop Class: Fair 


25. Force. PREROLLED CHARACTER #6 

Leader: Milord Delsel Oaktree 
Location: . 

No. of Troops: 400 

Type: elven archers/swords, spell-casting. 
BR: 130, Troop Class: Good 

D. Thyatian 

Expeditionary Army 

26. Force: THYATIS 1st COLONIAL 
DIVISION 

Leader: Thincol the Brave, F30 
Location: City of Thyatis 
No. of Troops: 6,000 

Type: 4,000 swordsmen, 1,400 archers, 600 
magic-users. 

BR: 85, Troop Class: Fair 

27. Force. 1st THYATIAN TRANSPORT 
FLEET 

Leader: Commodore Rczzan, FI5 
Location: City of Thyatis 
BR: 75, Av. Speed 34/78 miles/day 
Troop Class: Fair Fleet Class: Fair 

3 War Galley: 140 HP, Artillery, Ram 
15 Sm. Galleys; 80 HP each. Artillery, Ram 
60 Troop Transports: 180 HD each, Artillery 

Total Hull Points: 12,420 

Marines: 625*/6,625 with 1st Colonial Division 

Sailors: 1,200 Rowers: 1,800 

Men in Fleet: 3,625/9,625 with 1st Colonial 

Marines: FI, 70% swordsmen, 20 archers, 
10% spell casters. BR on Land: 85 
* The troop transports carry unit #26. Once 
unit #26 has disembarked, only 625 marines 
remain on board. 

28. Force: THYATIS 2nd COLONIAL 
DIVISION 

Leader: Prince Rawald, F5 
Location: Isle of Dawn 
No. of Troops: 4,000 

Type: 2,000 swordsmen, 1,400 horsemen 
with lances and swords, 600 archers. 

BR: 80, Troop Class: Fair 

29. Force: 2nd THYATIAN TRANSPORT 
FLEET 

Leader: Commander Zaaviq, FI7 
Location: Isle of Dawn 
BR: 82, Av. Speed 45/72 miles/day 
Troop Class: Fair Fleet Class: Fair 

12 Large Galleys: 110 HP each, Artillery, Ram 
40 Troop Transports: 120 HD each. Artillery 

Total Hull Points: 6,110 


Marines: 600*/4,600 with 2nd Colonial Division 

Sailors: 1,040 Rowers: 2,160 

Men in Fleet: 3,800/7,800 with 2nd Colonial 

Marines: FI, 50% swordsmen, 15% archers, 
35% horsemen. BR on Land: 80 
* The troop transports carry unit #28. When 
this unit has disembarked, only 600 marines 
remain on board. 

30. Force. THYATIAN WAR SQUADRON 
Leader: Vice-Admiral Kobhrax, F25 
Location: City of Kerendas 

BR: 91, Av. Speed 16/75 miles/day 
Troop Class: Fair Fleet Class: Fair 

3 War Galleys: 150 hp each. Artillery, Ram 
12 Large Galleys 120 HP each, Artillery, Ram 
20 Sm. Galleys: 100 HD each, Artillery, Ram 

Total Hull Points: 3,890 
Marines: 1,225 (2,450 HD) 

Sailors: 530 Rowers: 4,260 
Men in Fleet: 6,015 

Marines: F2, 60% swordsmen, 40% horse 
men with sword and bows. BR on Land: 80 

31. Force: ALAK DOOLS MINIONS 
Leader: Alak Dool, MU 19 
Location: Dool's Dominion 

No. of Troops: 2,000 

Type: 1,000 ores, 800 bugbears, 200 trolls 
BR: 74, Troop Class: Below Average 

32. Force. THE ARMY OF MAX THE 
FIRST 

Leader: Max 1, FI 5 
Location: Max's Dominion 
No. of Troops: 800 

Type: horsemen with bows and swords 
BR: 113, Troop Class: Good 

33. Force. LONGTOOTHS LEGIONS 
Leader: Longtooth, T20 

Location: Longtooth's Dominion 
No. of Troops: 500 
Type: thieves with bows and swords 
BR: 76, Thoop Class: Fair 

E. Alphatian 

Intervention Force 

34. Force: ALPHATIAN 155th DIVISION 
Leader: Lord Kraazucks, MU31 
Location: City of Aasla, Alphatia 

No. of Troops: 12,000 

Type: 3,200 swords/pikemen, 2,400 horse 
men with lances and swords, 2,400 archers, 
4,000 spell-casters. 

BR: 105, Troop Class: Average 


23 








THE SEA MACHINE 


Many naval battles may occur during this adven 
ture. Run them according to the War Machine 
rules, but with the Following modifications: 

A fleet is composed of ships, sailors, rowers, and 
marine troops. The role of the ships, aside from 
bring a transport, is to carry artillery, or devices able 
to sink other ships. Sailors do not normally fight, 
except to defend their vessel against boarding: as far 
as this adventure is concerned, rowers never fight 
(unless they are seamen). Marines board and seize 
enemy ships, or disembark to attack land objectives. 

Different battle ratings should be determined 
to evaluate the full power of ships and their 
troops. The following steps are suggested to get 
an acceptable result. 

Step 1: Determine the marines' Battle Rat 
ing (BR) in each force. 

Step 2: Determine the sailors' Basic Force 
Rating (BFR), ignoring Equipment and Special 
Troop Factors. Ignore rowers, unless they are 
not needed to control the ship and able to fight. 
Determine the total Hull Points (HP) of each 
type of ship in the fleets. 

Step 3: Determine the ships' BR, starting 
from the sailors BFR (see step 2). Use the modifiers 
below Each time a condition applies, add one 
tenth of the original BFR as a bonus. 

Galleys: 

a. if 20% of fleet's total Hull Points are gal 
leys 

b. if 50% of fleet's total HP are galleys 

c. if 80% of fleet's total HP are galleys 
Artillery: 

d. if 20% of vessels have artillery 
c. if 50% of vessels have artillery 

Ramming Device: 

f. if 20% of vessels have a ramming or crush 
ing device 

g. if 50% of vessels have a ramming or crush 
ing device 

Magical: 

h. if 1 % of fleet's total Hull Points arc magi 
cally enchanted 

i. if 20% of fleet's total HP are magically 
enchanted 

j. if 100% of fleet's total HP are magically 
enchanted 

Flying: 

k if 1 % of fleet's total HP can maneuver in a 
3-dimensional space* 

l. if 20% of fleet's total HP can maneuver in a 
3-dimcnsional space* 

m. if 100% of fleet's total HP can maneuver 
in a 3-dimensional space* 

(*) Applies to fleets able to fly. move underwater, 
or maneuver in another plane. 

Speed: 

n. if the fleet has an average speed of 150 ft/ 
round 

o. if the fleet has an average speed of 300 ft/ 
round 

p. rowers are seamen (not slaves, or con 


demned prisoners) 

Penalty (reduce BFR instead, il): 

q. rowers* are less than 1/2 their original 
numbers 

r. sailors* are less than 1/2 their original 
numbers 

(*) Cannot use rowers if reduced to less than 1/4 
their original numbers. A ship cannot use its 
sails if sailors are reduced to less than 1/4 of their 
numbers. 

Step 4: Make an average of both BRs (by add 
ing both and dividing by two). The total indi 
cates the final FLEET BR. Then determine 
separate combat modifiers for the fighting 
troops and the fleet. 

For troops: base the ratio on the marines' total 
HD or levels rather than the number of creatures. 

For the ships/sailors, determine the ratio from 
the total number of HP involved in each force 
(the sailors/rowers arc then considered as pan of 
the ship). 

Make an average of both combat modifiers 
(as above) and add it to the fleet/troop BR. 
Resolve the combat with normal War Machine 
rules, using instead the table below. 


Naval Combat Result Table 



Ship 

Extra 


Difference 

Damage 

Casualties 

Fatigue 


W:L 

W:L 

W:L 

1-8 

0:5% 

- 

N:N 

9-15 

0:10% 

- 

N:N 

16-24 

5%:15% 

0:10% 

N:M 

25-30 

5% :20% 

0:20% 

N:M 

31-38 

5%:25% 

l/2X:20% 

M:S 

39-50 

10%:30% 

1/2X:30% 

M:S 

51-63 

10% 35% 

X:40% 

N.NF 

64-80 

15% :40% 

0:30% 

N:NF 

81-90 

15% :50% 

X:50% 

N:MF 

91-100 

20%:60% 

X:60% 

M:MF 

101-120 

20%:70% 

1/2X:50% 

M:SF 

121-150 

25%:80% 

0:30% 

N:SF 

151 + 

25%:90% 

1/2X:70% 

N:SU 


W: Winner, L: Loser 

% " The percent casualties, in HP for ships, in 
HD or levels for creatures. 

X, 1/2X " the winner suffers the same amount 
or 1 /2 the loser's casualties (in HD or levels). 
N = The force is not fatigued. 

M " The force is moderately fatigued. 

S " The force is seriously fatigued. 

F " The force flees to its original port. 

U " Remaining ships surrender to winner. 

How to Use the Chart 

Step 5: Determine the damage the ships 
receive (Ship Damage). Force A chooses what 
types of ships are affected in fleet B, up to the total 
of damaged HP. Ship Damage may be equally 
divided among different types of ships. Fleet B 
chooses which specific ships within the given types 
are affected in its own force. Repeat procedure if 


fleet A has Ship Damage as well. Unallocated Hull 
Points of damage are ignored. For purposes of 
combat, damaged ships are considered lost with 
their passengers 

Step 6: The winner captures up to 1 /4 of the 
opponent's lost ships; their passengers take 50% 
casualties and surrender. To keep a seized ship, 
the winner must dispatch a minimum of 12 sail 
ors and/or marines to maintain order on board. 
Otherwise, the winner must either free or 
destroy the captured ship. 

Step 7: Determine Extra Casualties for the 
troops (marines, sailors, rowers) on undamaged 
ships. Extra Casualties are evenly applied to each 
type of troop, rounded down. 

Step 8: Determine Fatigue effects on 
marines, sailors, and rowers. Two consecutive 
"M" results are equivalent to a "Seriously 
Fatigued" status An "S" result for a fleet 
halves the galleys' oar speed. 

The losing force always withdraws. No winner 
should ever suffer more than twice the loser's 
destroyed HP Seized ships are not considered 
damaged. Ignore excess HP of damage. 

Likewise, the loser should never suffer more 
than 10 times the winner's HP of damage. This 
is to limit the effects of a suicidal attack from a 
small Elite force. 

Recovering Losses 

The winning force (or one remaining in the 
area after battle) may recover up to 1/3 its dam 
aged HP or troop casualties (wounded, uncon 
scious, or disorganized troops, men at sea). 
Recovery of ships is determined in HP rather 
than in number of ships. 

Recovered ships are treated as 10 Hull-Point 
wrecks (out-of-combat) until repaired in port. 
Those ships must be the type of vessels sunk dunng 
battle If the amount of recoverable HP is insuffi 
cient to allow one ship to be salvaged (at full HP 
strength), then the ship cannot be recovered. 

The characters have a chance to hire some pris 
oners into their own fleet. For each group of 50 
prisoners of Chaotic or Neutral alignment (other 
than elite troops or monster types), roll ld20, and 
apply the proposing character's Charisma bonus/ 
penalty. With a modified score of 18 or higher, the 
group of prisoners joins the party's ranks. Other 
wise, the party may freely use them as slave rowers 
in their galleys. 

Ex-prisoners have a 60% chance of deserting in 
any port However, after three months aboard, 
treat the ex-prisoners as regular sailors/troops. It is 
normally not advised to have ships solely manned 
by recent ex-prisoners. 

Any sail ship can contain twice as many pris 
oners as a normal shipload of marines. If desired, 
any ship may contain 5-10 extra prisoners in their 
bilge Allow the player characters to hire merce 
nary troops and sailors in friendly ports to make up 
for their troop casualties. 


24 




















Chapter Five: THE FLYING CASTLE 


Encounter Setting 

This chapter is played concurrently with 
Chapter Four. 

The flying castle has been wreaking havoc 
behind King Ericall's lines since the begin 
ning of the war. If the PCs have not decided 
to neutralize the flying castle, they receive a 
message from the king ordering them to do 
so. 

The deck plans of the fortress appear on 
Map IV in the pull out section of this booklet. 
The castle contains an open air area on the 
top (Level A) and five inner floors (Levels B 
through F). The casde is roughly a 140-foot- 
cubical structure, with battlements and 
machicolations on the top, and arrow slits on 
the sides. Level F has a 30-foot-thick floor to 
absorb the shock during landings and a draw 
bridge entrance common to all conventional 
castles (see area 16). Throughout the fortress, 
the ceilings are 10 feet high and the floors 
between levels are 15 feet thick. The stones 
on the exterior of the castle are a pale blue 
color. 

Unless otherwise noted, torch-sized wands 
with continual light spells (cast at 25th level) 
illuminate the castle. Each wand is fitted with 
a closable lead cap to douse the light and open 
wands are subject to dispel magic. 

Castle's Flying Abilities 

The castle may fly at a maximum speed of 
50 feet per round as long as it is under control 
(see area 11). The castle's maximum move 
ment in a 24-hour day is 96 miles (four hexes 
on Map V). It can make one 90 degree turn 
per game turn. This turn is made at the mid 
dle of the castle's move. The controller deter 
mines the speed and direction of flight, and 
can freely rotate the castle. 

Combat Tactics 

To reduce the chances of being sighted the 
castle will generally fly above the clouds. 
Maximizing its surprise, the castle will usu 
ally cause disruption in the supply lines of 
enemy troops before making an attack. Able 
to clear large areas quickly with artillery from 
the sky, the castle is generally used to cover a 
conventional attacking force. Defenders in a 
fortress lose their War Machine advantages. 

The castle is an active military base. Two 
patrols are always in flight around the castle 
on the lookout for trouble. The first patrol 
consists of two giant air elementals that orbit 
the castle 24 hours a day at a distance of 300 
yards. They are aggressive, and unless 
warned off by the second patrol, attack all 


who approach the castle. 

The second patrol contains 12 pegataurs 
and a sergeant, flying at 100 yards from the 
castle (see Appendix). They attack any 
approaching creatures with their longbows 
and spells. 

Each pegataur is armed with a longbow 
(master proficiency), mace + 1, a two- 
handed sword, and 15 arrows +1. Each 
pegataur has the following spells: 

Level I: magic missile (x3). 

Level II: detect invisible (x2). 

Level III: haste', fireball (50%) or lightning 

bolt (50%). 

The pegataur sergeant is armed with a long 
bow (grand master proficiency), mace + 2, a 
two-handed sword, and 15 arrows +/. He 
can cast the following spells: 

Level I: magic missile (x4). 

Level II: detect invisible (x 2), mirror image. 
Level III: haste', dispel magic. 

Level IV: storm, wall of fire. 

At least one member of this patrol will have a 
detect invisible spell running. The pegataurs 
can call on the air elementals for aid if a fight 
turns against them. Also the guards stationed 
on the batdements are on constant lookout 
(see area 1, Level A). 

Only the most careful approach will not be 
detected by the guards. The use of magic, 
such as several round trips on a travel spell or 
the casting of a teleport any object or dimen 
sion door from a well hidden place may be 
necessary. A wild and impressive diversion 
on the opposite side of the castle has a chance 
of success (10% if the party is visible, 20% if 
they are invisible, 80% if the PCs look like 
inoffensive birds, etc.) 

If the PCs are capable they may fly up to 
the castle or they may approach it when it has 
landed near a village. The mujina (see Chap 
ter Three) will leave the village to return to 
the castle (possibly with the party's ransom). 
The party then has a chance to sneak in as 
described above, or attack the castle in mass. 

If the PCs' approach is discovered, the two 
air patrols (sec above) will be sent to attack. 
The guards and artillery on the battlements 
will give as much support as possible. 

If the PCs successfully enter the castle 
without being noticed, the defenders will gen 
erally stay in position and wait for the attack 
ers to come to them. 


Encounter Key 
Area 1. The Battlements - 
Level A 

Sixteen pegataurs, armed with the same 
weapons as the pegataur aerial patrol, are 
always on guard here. One will always have 
an active detect invisible spell. The pegataurs 
will fire only their own weapons. The battle 
ment artillery can be fired only by human 
artillerists. No humans are posted on this 
level but 90 can be summoned from area 7 
(Level B). This takes five rounds. 

The central portion of Level A is 10 feet 
lower than the battlements. In the center are 
four heavy catapults (marked H) pointing 
outward in four opposite directions, and one 
light catapult (marked L) in each of the four 
corners. Eight ballistas mounted on swivels 
(marked B) have been bolted to the stone 
floor on the battlements. A cauldron of oil 
(marked O) constantly boils in each comer of 
the battlement. These cauldrons arc magical 
receptacles, each capable of producing 200 
gallons of boiling oil every three hours. When 
all four cauldrons arc poured, the oil gushes 
out through the machicolation and causes 
4d 10 points of damage to any creature under 
the castle or attacking its walls. 

There are 20 heavy and 20 light missiles on 
hand for each of the catapults, but these are 
intended for use only in sieges. Each ballista 
has a supply of six bolts + 2 and 32 normal 
missiles. 

Eleven manscorpions will come from the 
guard post (area 2, Level B) when the artil 
lerists (see above) are summoned. All rein 
forcements enter area 1 through a large 
trapdoor marked F on the map. The stairs 
under the trapdoor lead to area 2. 

In the middle of the inner court is a small 
pedestal. It is a receiving device for the tele 
porters in areas 10 (Level B) and 13 (Level 

F)- 

Area 2. Guardpost - Level B 

Eleven manscorpions, including one 
cleric, are on guard here. They will go to area 
1 to help the pegataurs when an alarm is 
sounded. If a fight goes against them, they 
will attempt to retreat to area 10 (Level D). 
The stairs to the north spiral up to area 1 
(Level A); the stairs to the south down to 
areas 8 (Level C) and 10 (Level D). 

Each manscorpion is armed with a poleaxe 
+ 1 (expert proficiency), a heavy crossbow, 
and 10 bolts +3. The clerical manscorpion is 
armed with a poleaxe +2 (master profi 
ciency) and has the following spells: 


26 


Chapter Five: THE FLYING CASTLE 


Level I: cure light wounds' (x3). 

Level II: bless', silence 15' radius (x2). 
Level III: continual light'. striking(x2). 
Level IV: cure serious wound (x2). 

Area 3. Storeroom 

This area contains various fighting sup 
plies for defending the castle or attacking tar 
gets on the ground. A partial list of the 
supplies stored in the room includes: 300 
arrows * 2, 200 ballista bolts, 200 missiles for 
the heavy and light catapults. 100 ropes, 50 
grapples, and 2d 12 potions of healing. 

Area 4. Storeroom 

This area contains the castle's foodstuffs. 
The room is packed with kegs, barrels, 
crates, and freshly butchered carcasses. 
Many of the containers appear to have been 
recently opened. 

Area 5. Kitchen 


This room is a sizable, but cramped, 
kitchen. On the north wall are two 6-foot 
iron ore doors. The east wall is filled by a 
huge fireplace, well equipped with roast 
ing spits and hooks for hanging kettles. A 
hefty stack of firewood is piled in the 
southeast comer. A tall rack of knives and 
choppers stands just south of the door. 
The rest of the kitchen is filled with long 
hardwood tables - stained and scarred 
from much use. Seven human slaves, scat 
tered throughout the room, stare at you in 
amazement when you enter. 


These slaves have been held captive m the 
castle since a few weeks before the war. They 
understand that the PCs do not belong in the 
castle, but do not know how they got inside. 

After they get over their initial amaze 
ment, the servants will converse with the 
party. They know the general layout of the 
castle, but not its next destination. The ser 
vants regularly take food down to the mans- 
corpions on Level D and to the pegataurs on 
Level F If asked, the servants will tell the PCs 
the exact number of creatures on these levels. 
The slaves are unaware that Level E exists 
and have not been allowed on Level C. They 
do not know what is there. The servants dis 
trust the pegataurs and the manscorpions, 
but in no account will they voluntarily follow 
the party anywhere inside the castle- 


Area 6. Servants' Quarters 


This small barracks has a row of simple 
bunks arranged in a tier, seven bunks long 
and two high. The bunks arc festooned 
with many articles of rough clothing all 
hung haphazardly on pegs. Humans in 
homespun fill half the bunks and look 
bewildered at your entrance. 


Seven slaves, the off-duty kitchen staff, are 
always present here. They have essentially 
the same information about the castle as 
those in the kitchen do, except that one of 
them has observed the existence of Level E. 
He would reveal his secret if offered freedom 
and 100 gp. 

Area 7. Artillerists' Barracks 


This room appears as a conventional mili 
tary barracks, packed with rows of bunks 
stacked in tiers of three. Almost 100 men 
are sitting, cleaning their uniforms and 
being boisterous. 


These are the 90 artillerists trained to use 
the weapons on Level A. As soon as they are 
aware of the party's presence, they attack in 
mass. They should, however, be hoplessly 
outclassed by the party and will surrender 
after a third of their force has been knocked 
out of combat. 

As their duties require their presence in 
only area 1, they have absolutely no knowl 
edge of the castle's layout. If questioned, they 
answer that anything beyond this level is off- 
limits to them. 

Area 8. The Lich's Pawns - 
Level C 

A lich, the castle's commander (see 
description for area 9) has cast a magic door 
spell on the western stairs which spiral from 
area 2 (Level B) down to area 10 (Level D). 
The entrance is invisible to the party and the 
PCs will have to detect magic to fmd it. The 
party can access Level C with the appropriate 
spell or with a minimum of 100 points of 
damage to the magical wall. 

Six spectres wait on the other side of die 
wall and attempt to stop anyone entering this 
level. The lich controls the spectres and he 
has the ability to see and hear by using their 
eyes and ears. 


Area 9. The Lich's Lair 

The lich is the commander of the casde. He 
becomes aware of the PCs presence when the 
spectres spot them. The lich has the following 
spells (the ones followed by a (+) appear in 
its spell books only, and are not memorized. 
If the party spends a great amount of time in 
the castle, the lich will be have time to study 
his books): 

Level I: charm person ( + ), detect magic 
( +). hold portal (+). magic missile (x5), 
shield (x2), sleep ( + ), ventriloquism ( *). 
Level II: detect invisible, locate object (+), 
mirror image (x2), web (x2), wizard lock 
(+) 

Level III: clairvoyance (+), dispel magic 
(x2), haste', fireball (x2), fly (+), hold 
person ( +), lightning bolt (x2). 

Level IV: dimension door{x 2), hallucinatory 
terrain ( + ), polymorph self ( + ), wall of 
lire, ice storm (x2), wizard eye. 

Level V: cloudkill, dissolve ( + ), feeblemind, 
hold monster' (+), teleport, wall of 
stone. 

Level VI: anti-magic shell, death spell ( +), 
projected image, disintegrate (x3), stone 
to flesh *(+). 

Level VII: delayed blast fireball (x2), lore 
(+), magic door', sword, power word 
stun. 

Level VIII: dance, force field (x2), mind bar 
rier, permanence (+), polymorph any 
object ( +). 

Level IX: contingency (*), heal, maze, 
timestop. 

As the party moves along the corridor, the 
lich casts haste', shield, wizard eye. ESP, and 
mind barrier spells. It also uses its wizard eye 
to track the PCs. The wizard eye, and other 
spells like sword and projected image, can 
pass through the magic doors blocking the 
way to the lich's lair. 

When the party approaches one of the 
magic doors, the lich either steps through and 
casts one of its spells or casts its sword spell or 
projected image from behind the door. The 
lich uses its wall of stone and force held spells 
to delay the party, gaining more time to set 
ambushes before the party reaches the center 
of the lair. 

If turned, the lich will dimension door to 
area 11 (Level E), where it will heal and wait 
for the PCs to catch up. The lich is also pro 
tected by a contingency spell that will auto 
matically dimension door the creature to area 
11 whenever it is reduced to fewer than 20 hit 
points. 


27 







Chapter Five: THE FLYING CASTLE 


The center of the lich's lair is empty except 
for a great sarcophagus carved from black 
marble and a stone pedestal in the northwest 
corner When the party enters, the grave is 
open. The sarcophagus contains an expen 
sive coffin and two secret compartments. The 
first holds seven potions: flying, invisibility, 
poison, merging, delusion, climbing, and 
growth. The second compartment holds the 
lich's spell books. 

In the northwest corner is a teleporting 
device connected to area 11 (Level E). The 
teleporter is operated via a stud hidden in the 
north wall. 

Area 10. Manscorpions' 

Barracks - Level D 

Twenty manscorpions live here. Four of 
these creatures are clerics and all have the 
same weapons and spells as the manscorpions 
of their class in area 2 (Level B) 

In the center of the room is a magical pool 
that never dries up giving the troops a con 
stant supply of water. 

The eastern stairs lead directly to area 13 
iLevel F) There is no stairway entrance to 
Level E. The southern stairs spiral upward to 
areas 8 (Level C) and 2 (Level B). 

A pedestal is located near each of the stair 
cases. These pedestals teleport to area 1 any 
one touching one of the activating studs on 
the wall. If hurt during battle and forced to 
(lee, the manscorpions will use these teleport 
ers. arrive in area 1, and go down the stairs to 
area 3 (Level B). There they use a supply of 
healing potions until they have recovered 
their strength. Hoping to surprise the party, 
the manscorpians will head back up the stairs 
and launch a counterattack. 

Area 11. Control Room - 
Level E 

This room is accessible only by breaching 
the walls, door, or ceiling, or by teleporting 
from area 9 (Level C). The stairs appearing 
on the map do not connect with this level. 
They lead to areas 10 (Level D) and 13 (Level 
F). The room is completely sheathed in 2 
inches of lead and 1 inch of brass. 

If the PCs teleport from area 9, they arrive 
on the pedestal at the end of the northwest 
corridor. If the stud on the closest wall is 
pushed, anyone standing on the pedestal is 
teleported back to area 9. 

When the hch arrives from area 9, it will 
stay at the south end of the corridor. When 
the PCs appear the lich casts more spells try 
ing to keep the party bottled up in the corri 


dor. If the lich is turned or is in danger of 
being slain, it will teleport to Alphatia and 
abandon the fortress. 

When the party enters the main hall of area 
11, read the following to the players: 


The floor, walls and ceiling of this room 
are covered with a brilliant copper-like 
metal. Along the room's east wall, just 
north of center, squats a massive crystal 
line throne with rainbow hued flames that 
prance and flicker in its translucent 
depths. Sitting stiffly on the throne is a 
small human male child about 10 years 
old, staring ofrinto space, either unaware 
that you exist or uncaring. He seems 
barely alive. 


This room is the heart of the castle. The 
crystal throne is the control mechanism for 
the castle's movement and stability. A crea 
ture with a combined Intelligence and Wis 
dom of at least 32 must sit on the throne at all 
times or the castle will drift with the prevail 
ing wind and crash. The current "helms 
man" is a nightwalker the lich polymorphed 
into the shape of a human child A large 
metallic door connects the room with area 12 
to the south. 

When the PCs enter the hall with the 
throne, the nightwalker remains seated in the 
chair, playing the role of a bewildered child. 
If a PC comes within 10 feet of the night- 
walker or if a member of the party is obvi 
ously casting spells or Bring missiles, the 
nightwalker will dispel the polymorph effect 
and regain its normal form. A wave of cold 
will wash over the room and all consumable 
items carried by the party will immediately 
spoil (sec D&D(r) Masters page 36). 

The creature wears a cloak of the shadows, 
an unholy gift from its true master, Alphaks. 
The cloak steals the soul of any creature 
trapped inside its dark folds. If a character 
loses his soul and is killed in this adventure or 
anytime thereafter, no mortal or immortal 
being will be able to give him life again. 

In addition to its normal lighting abilities, 
each round the nightwalker will attempt to 
wrap one side of its cloak around a PC. If the 
character successfully rolls ld20 under his 
Dexterity, the character escapes. If not, the 
character's sou] has been imprisoned by 
Alphaks. While alive, the victim will feel an 
utter sensation of cold and emptiness. He will 
not have a reflection in a mirror, and will not 
make a shadow in light. 

At the end of the adventure, the victim's 
patron Immortal should send a message to 


the PC, explaining in obscure terms what has 
happened. To regain his soul, the PC must 
defeat Alphaks on his own plane. (This may 
be a part of the PC's quest to immortality). 
The character could also become a minion of 
Alphaks but he would then be an NPC under 
the DM's control. 

The cloak is a part of the nightwalker. If 
defeated, the cloak dissolves along with the 
monster. The nightwalker has swallowed the 
following treasure: three 10,000 gp gems, three 
eggs of wonder, a ring of protection, (seven 
charges) and four pieces of jewelry of 5,000 gp, 
7,500 gp, 12,500 gp, and 20,000 gp. 

Controlling the Castle 

When the nightwalker leaves the throne 
the castle begins to drift. It maintains altitude 
for one game turn, then it begins to sink 
toward the ground at a rate of 90 feet per 
game turn. If the castle hits the ground dur 
ing the first five turns of its descent, it will be 
heavily damaged, but not totally destroyed. 
Creatures inside the castle will suffer 2d20 
points of damage from flying debris. Once 
grounded, the surviving garrison will surren 
der to any approaching military force. 

The castle will not be able to fly again until 
fully repaired. Repairs will take 2d4 months, 
at a cost of 75,000 gp per month. 

After the initial five turns of descent, the cas- 
de falls like a rock. It is unalterably out of con 
trol and will inevitably crash within the next 
1 d4 rounds. When it strikes the ground, the cas 
tle will be completely obliterated, smashed to 
gravel. Creatures inside the castle arc immedi 
ately killed. Any creature atop the castle (on 
Level A) must make a saving throw vs. Death at 
-8 or be slain, suffering 7d8 points of damage 
if the saving throw is successful. 

Any character sitting on the throne with a 
combined Wisdom and Intelligence of 32 or 
better, will become telcpathically aware of the 
castle's abilities. The PC will immediately 
gain partial control of the castle stopping it 
from drifting and falling, and full control in 
2d4 rounds. If the character has an insuffi 
cient Intelligence and Wisdom, his brain 
fries. The victim is reduced to 3 points in 
both scores, and must make a saving throw 
vs. death at ~ 5 or die. 

The magical operation of the castle produces 
large quantities of negative energy. The turns 
spent gaining control of the castle drain one 
level of experience from the controller and 
thereafter, an additional level for each hour of 
controlled flight. The nigtwalker, and other 
powerful ceatures from the Sphere of Death, are 
immune to the experience loss. 


28 




Chapter Five: THE FLYING CASTLE 


Area 12. Treasure Room 

This room is accessible only from area 11, 
or by doing 100 points of damage to either the 
walls, floor, or ceiling. The room is dark and 
completely sheathed with 2 inches of lead. A 
reversed magic door * (magic lock) has been 
cast on the door to this area. 

There are 60 chests in this room, all locked 
with complex locks (-40% penalty to Open 
Locks roll) and trapped with well hidden 
traps (- 55% penalty to Finding and Remov 
ing rolls). The traps, triggered by opening 
the chests or by failed attempts at dismantling 
them, inflict 2d 12 points of damage. Only 19 
chests contain anything valuable, the others 
are filled with bags of sand. 

The contents of 17 of the chests are as fol 
lows: three with 5,000 cp each, six with 5,000 
sp each, six with 5,000 gp each, and two with 
5,000 pp each. The 18th chest holds six pieces 
of wrought silver jewelry worth 200 gp each, 
32 pieces of silver flatware worth 50 gp each, 
forty 10 gp gems, fifteen 100 gp gems, eight 
1,000 gp gems, one 5,000 gp gem, and a jew 
eled chalice worth 8,000 gp. The 19th chest 
holds 4,000 platinum rings each worth 8 gp. 

All the coins and the rings arc in bags of 250 
coins of weight. The valuables in chest 18 are 
bagged by type and carefully padded to prevent 
damage. The 19 chests containing treasure are 
spread randomly throughout the room. 

13. Stable-Barracks - Level F 

Thirty pegataurs, equipped with the same 
weapons as the aerial patrol, will always be 
resting here. One of them will always have an 
active detect invisible spell. On both sides of 
the main door are two pedestals, teleporting 
devices connected with area 1 (Level A). The 
operating studs for the teleporters are clearly 
visible on the west wall. 

If the alarm gong in area 15 sounds, half of 
these creatures will rush out the main door to 
defend the gate in area 16. The other half will 
teleport to Level A and fly down to attack 
whomever is tampering with the gate. 

14. Study Room 


A 10 foot x 30 foot band of stone in the 
center of the north wall has been polished 
to mirror brightness, but nothing seems to 
reflect in it. Centered directly in front of 
the polished section is a hardwood podium 
4 'h feet high. 


The mirrored wall section is highly magi 
cal, capable of displaying spell books placed 


on the podium large enough to be read from 
30 feet away in normal light. Temporal magi 
cal writings (such as scrolls) may not be dis 
played on the mirror, but are destroyed when 
placed on the podium. 

By placing a spell book on the podium an 
entire roomful of pegataurs can memorize a 
spell at the same time. The mirror part of the 
wall cannot be removed without destroying 
its magic. The podium itself is useless. 

Area 15. Sergeants' Quarters 

Three pegataur sergeants, eqipped with the 
same weapons as the sergeants in the aerial 
patrol, are always resting here. One of them is 
constandy on the lookout through the arrow 
slits. If anything happens outside, the sergeant 
on guard will sound the alarm on the large gong 
in the northwest comer of the room. 

The room contains norma] pegataur 
equipment and one set of spell books with the 
following spells: 

Level I: magic missile. 

Level II: detect invisible, mirror image. 
Level III: haste", dispel magic, fireball, 
lightning bolt. 

Level IV: wall of ice/ice storm, wall of lire. 

If the casde garrison holds the dead body of 
one of the PC's henchmen (see Chapter 
Three) it will be in this room. In the southeast 
comer of the room arc the winches to open or 
close the drawbridge and two portcullises at 
the entrance of area 16. 

16. Castle's Lower Entrance 

The two portcullises closing the entrance 
are too heavy for a character to lift without 
magical strength. Augmented by the girdle, 
potion of giant strength, or similar magical 
spells, a PC may lift one of the portcullises on 
a roll of 1 on ld8. Each PC assisting who has 
a strength of 16 or greater improves the 
chance of opening the door by 1. Each PC 
with magical Strength improves the chance 
by 2. A maximum of four characters may lift 
one portcullis together (making the best pos 
sible chance for lifting a portcullis 7 in 8). 

Two pegataurs and two manscorpions are 
always on guard here. The pegataurs have 
the same spells and weapons as those in the 
flying patrol and one always has a detect 
invisible spell running. The manscorpians 
have the same weapons as the manscorpions 
in area 2 (Level B). If these guards detect 
anyone tampering with the portcullises or 
otherwise trying to gain entry, they will 
attempt to hold the gate until help arrives. 


29 





APPENDIX 


NEW MONSTERS 

Beetle, Earthquake 


Armor Class: 
Hu Dice: 

Move: 

Burrowing: 

Attacks: 

Damage: 

No. Appearing: 
Save As: 
Morale: 
Treasure Type: 
Alignment: 

XP Value: 


-6 

40** 

180' (60'f) 
90' (30') 

4 legs/1 bite 
4-40 (x4)/6-36 
"( 1 ) 

Fighter: 36 

9 

A 

Neutral 

20,750 


This 100 foot long creature is an orange-red 
beetle with 10 black-furred spider legs, and the 
head and neck of a black dragon. The monster 
spends most of its time burrowing far below the 
land's surface, but occasionally comes to the 
surface in search of prey. It attacks with blows 
from four of its legs (damage 4-40 each) and its 
powerful bite (6-36 points). 

The earthquake beetle gets its name from 
the great tremors produced by its movement. 
As the beetle approaches the surface, the 
nnn-magical tremors have the same effect as 
an earthquake spell cast by a 25th level cleric. 
If the monster has been reduced to half of its 
original hit points, the dragon can, once per 
week, breathe a cone of acid 60 feet long and 
30 feet wide, (handled in the same way as 
dragon breath.) The beetle can regain 3 hit 
points per day. 

Since the beetle spends most of its time 
burrowing underground, it occasionally 
devours deposits of precious metal, gems, 
and even parts of dungeons. Thus, consider 
able amounts of treasure can often be found 
inside the creature. 


Special Thanks to Frank Mentzer for the 
Earthquake Beetle. 


Pegataur 


Armor Class: 
Hit Dice: 

Move: 

Flying: 

Attacks: 

Damage: 

No. Appearing: 
As: 

Morale: 
Treasure Type: 
Alignment: 


5 (or better) 

5*-14*** 

180' (60') 

360' (120') 

2 hooves, 1 weapon or 1 
spell 

1-6/1-6/by weapon or spell 

0 ( 2 - 20 ) 

(See below) 5 
8 
E 

Neutral 


XP Value by HD: 

5* - 300; 6* - 500; 7* - 850; 8* - 1,200 
9** - 2,300; 10** - 2,500; 11** - 2,700 
12** - 3,000; 13*** - 4,200; 14*** - 4,500 

Seldom encountered, pegataurs are winged 
centaurs with elvish upper bodies. They have 
an affinity for pegasi and are able to converse 
with them. Any group of fewer than five 
pegataurs may be accompanied by at least 
twice that number of pegasi 40% of the time. 

Although pegataurs are generally aloof 
and ignoble-especially toward non-flyers- 
their neutral alignment makes them 
approachable. If treated with respect and 
paid well they can be hired by anyone as 
troops for garrisons or armies, or to perform 
special sendees. Individual pegataurs do not 
join adventuring parties. 

Most pegataurs should be treated as first 
level elves. Thirty percent of the race, how 
ever, are of a higher level, up to the elvish 
maximum of 10th level. When attacking in 
melee or making saving throws, a pegataur is 
treated as either a monster of its total Hit 
Dice, or as its level as an elf, whichever is 
preferable. Twenty percent of 10th level 
pegataurs have earned enough experience to 
gain Attack Ranks and some or all of the spe 
cial elf attacks and defenses (page 30 of the 
Players Companion rulebook). 

All adult pegataurs have basic weapon 
mastery in longbow, lance, two-handed 
sword, and mace. There is a 20% chance that 
a randomly encountered first level pegataur 
will have one additional level of weapon mas 
tery. Higher level pegataurs have an addi 
tional 20% chance of gaining another level of 
mastery at every other level attained. For 
instance, a third level pegataur rolls twice 
and may have up to two extra levels of mas 
tery. A ninth level pegataur rolls five times. 

If a pegataur is 10th level, treat each 
increase in attack rank as a level. For exam 
ple, a pegataur with 1.1 million experience 
points may have as many as seven additional 
levels of master)-. All pegataurs work on mas 
tery in only one weapon at a time, until the 
pegataur becomes a Grand Master. Addi 
tional levels are applied to a different 
weapon. 

An unarmored pegataur has an armor 
class of 5. The table shows armor classes of 
armored pegataurs: 


Armor Chance* AC 

Joust 0% - 1 

Field 0% 0 

Plate 10% 1 

Banded 10% 2 

Chain 50% 3 


Scale 15% 4 

Leather 15% 5 

* Refers to the frequency of randomly 
encountered pegataurs wearing this type of 
armor. Non-randomly encountered pega 
taurs can have better armor. Their base AC is 
shown here. 

A shield gives a ~ 1 adjustment to armor 
class to the creature's humanoid forepart. No 
randomly encountered pegataurs carry 
shields. 

New Magical Items 

The Girdle of De'Rah 

In its true form, this artifact appears as a 
belt constructed of small platinum links inter 
twined with strands from a unicorn's beard. 
The buckle is constructed of three oval plates 
of a lustrous blue-gray metal. When a mortal 
looks into the surface of the plates, he sees his 
own reflection repeated an infinite number of 
times. 

Currently, however, the girdle appears as a 
well-made but worn belt of blue-gray leather. 
In this form it does not radiate magic, but its 
eldritch nature is apparent to anyone who 
handles it with a detect magic spell running. 

The origins of the girdle are lost, but its 
legendary owner, the cleric De'rah, is said to 
have been a breathtakingly beautiful woman 
who could see through any deception or cure 
any malady. 

Magnitude Greater Artifact 

Power Limits: 4/A, 3/B, 3/C,4/D Sphere: 
Time (Clerics, Water) 


Suggested powers (PP 435) 


A2 

Open Mind 

PP 80 

B1 

Lie Detection 

PP 50 

B1 

ESP 

PP 25 

B1 

Trucsight 

PP 50 

D1 

Cure Disease 

PP 20 

D1 

Neutralize 

PP 30 

D1 

Heal 

PP 100 

D3 

Mind Barrier 

PP 80 

Activation: In its present 

form the girdle is 


partially active. All powers of 30 PP or less 
are usable, but the girdle has a power limit of 
100 until activated, effectively making it a 
minor artifact. The girdle can be activated 
only by finding the last mortal remains of 
De'Rah herself - her mummified feet. 

The first method of reactivation requires 
the user to sever his own feet and attach the 
relics to his leg stumps where they will auto 
matically graft themselves in place. Although 


30 





APPENDIX 



the feet are nearly indestructible, the user 
hereafter will be unable to walk without 
assistance. A second method of reactivation 
requires the proper re-burial of the relics and 
a sacrifice of at least 300,000 gp to an immor 
tal of the Sphere ofTime. The time and place 
of the burial is at the discretion of the DM. 

Use of Powers: All active powers are tele- 
pathically apparent to the user. 

Suggested Handicap: Three to 30 days after 
the open mind power is used for the second 
time Doom strikes the user. His body and all 
equipment disappear and are recoverable 
only at the DM's option. The girdle teleports 
to a random location. 

Suggested Penalties 

1. For one week out of four, all members of 
the same race and of the opposite sex become 
irresistablv attracted to the user. The first 
onset of this handicap occurs exactly three 
weeks after the girdle is fully activated. After 
wards it is unpredictable. A ld8 will deter 
mine the liming of further occurrences: 1 = 
three days early, 2 m two days early, 3 = one 
day early, 4 " on time, 5 = on time, 6 = one 
day late, 7 - two days late, 8 - three days 
late. 

While the penalty is in effect, any member 
of the opposite sex that spends a round within 
30 feet of the user must roll his or her com 
bined Wisdom and Intelligence or less on 
2d20 or become infatuated with the user for 
duration of the current incidence. If the user 
appears in public while the handicap is in 
effect, the PC will be mobbed by pawing 
admirers. Mobbed characters can do nothing 
except try to escape. 


When the penalty becomes inactive each 
victim should roll on the reaction chart. A 
neutral reaction simply indicates the end of 
the infatuation. The victim is free to go about 
his business. A positive reaction indicates a 
basic desire to continue the infatuation, but 
the victim is no longer under a magical com 
pulsion and can be dissuaded. A negative 
reaction indicates hostility towards the user 
making the victim feel injured or insulted. 
The PC may attack the user, but because the 
victim is not under a magical compulsion, he 
(or she) can be mollified in a number of ways. 

Note: The previous handicap requires the 
players to engage in a good deal of role- 
playing. 

2. When the girdle is fully activated the 
user suffers damage feedback. He takes one 
point of damage per die of healing bestowed 
on others. A cureall spell inflicts one point for 
every five points restored. 

This penalty tests the mettle of the user. 
While it is possible to avoid ill effects simply 
by not curing others, the Immortals ofTime 
frown upon such use and may punish clerics 
who refuse to heal others. 

Cartographer's Amulet 

This magical item, constructed from a 
huge flawless jacinth, is cut into a lens-shaped 
disk 6 inches in diameter and one-half inch 
thick. It has a platinum setting and chain. 
Twelve diamond chips are placed at 30 degree 
intervals on the left side of the setting and a 
rune surrounds the top chip. 

With the proper command words, the user 
can direct the amulet to display a scale map of 
the immediate surrounding area once every 
three days. Remaining on the face of the 


amulet for one turn, the map can show either 
a small or large area. True north is indicated 
by the rune. The amulet must be held in the 
user's hand when the command word is spo 
ken. 

The small area map, when used indoors, 
shows the area within a 60 foot radius of the 
amulet. The map will show passages, stair 
ways, doors, and other normal features such 
as fountains, furnishings and loose treasure. 
The user sees in the amulet what he would see 
viewing the shown area with normal vision in 
daylight. The map will not however, reveal 
traps, secret doors, creatures nor anything 
about the nature of what is shown, (ie. magi 
cal. unsafe, etc.) 

Once the map is invoked, the user may 
describe up to four objects and the amulet 
will locate them by number on the map. The 
user must know exactly what each object is, 
cf. locate object spell. It is possible that secret 
doors or very familiar types of traps could be 
located in the same manner. If there is more 
than one of a particular object within range 
only the one closest to the amulet will be 
shown. The user can describe the same object 
more than once, up to his limit of four. 

Outdoors, the small area map displays the 
area within a 60 yard radius of the amulet 
showing hills, cave mouths, buildings, and 
other terrain features. Hidden objects will 
not be shown if the user could not discern 
them in daylight using normal vision. Such 
objects may be located with the proper 
description from the user (see above). 

The large area map can only be used out 
doors and shows the area within a three 
league radius of the amulet. The map is, out 
of necessity, less detailed than the small area 
map but otherwise has the same features. 
The user can command the amulet to locate 
only two special objects when using the large 
area map. 


31 




PREROLLED CHARACTERS 


Only a minimum of equipment and armor 
has been listed here, but the characters can 
also have: 500,000 gp in gems, jewelry, or 
coins; 3d4 potions; ld4 miscellaneous magic 
items, and, if desireable, ld4 loyal hench 
men. Determine at random the type and 
number of extra items for each character. 
These items may come from AC4, Book of 
Marvelous Magic. Each character should 
rule one dominion in Norwold, capable of 
sustaining the military forces listed in the 
Army Roster (pages 28-29). 

Trent the White 

30th level Paladin 

St 16, Dx 17, In 9, Co 17, Wi 15, Ch 16 
Armor Class: -8 Hit points: 112 

Equipment: longsword * 5 (AL L, In 9, Ego 
9), detects magic, gems and invisible; 
two-handed sword +3; dagger + 3; plate 
mail + 3, shield of reflecting * 5 

Trent left his home in the Heldann Freeholds 
years ago, seeking high adventure in the 
untamed wilderness of Norwold. For many 
years, he has been observing the politics of 
Alphatia, Thyaiis, and Norwold and having 
explored most of the continent, he has con 
cluded that Norwold would be better ofT if the 
two empires would leave it alone. He often 
discusses his political ideas with Adik dc 
Chcvas, a scholar and an adventurer (see 
below). 

Bardeen Longwalker 

Neutral 28th level Knight 

St 18. Dx 15, In 9, Co 17. W 10, Ch 14 
Armor Class: -5 Hit points: 115 

Equipment: +4 defending sword +4 
(expert proficiency); heavy crossbow +3; 
15 bolts * 1; plate armor * 3, shield * 3 

Bardeen left his home in the Kingdom of 
Ostland at an early age. Having visited 
nearly every civilized country in the world, 
his many adventures have brought him a 
large fortune. Several years ago, he paused in 
his travels long enough to establish a domin 
ion in Norwold and to make a study of his 
favorite weapon, the sword. Bardeen is still a 
heroic adventurer at heart, and his rule over 
his dominion suffers somewhat from his fre 
quent absences. 


Wirmefred of the Lake 

Lawful 28th level Cleric 

St 10, Dx 12, In II, Co 17, W 17. Ch 14 
Armor Class: -4 Hit points: 87 

Equipment: mace + 4; mace +2, vs. spell- 
resistant creatures +5; plate mail +3; 
shield + 3; ring of water walking 

Winnifred spent her early years adventuring 
in the Ethengar Khanate. She came north 
looking for a chance to leave her mark. An 
efficient dominion ruler and a loyal supporter 
of King Ericall, Winnifred is trying to 
increase her influence by expanding her land 
holdings. She sees adventuring as a way to 
finance her ambitions. 

Adik de Chevas 

Lawful 29th level Magic-User 

St 12, Dx 16, In 18, Co 14, Wi 16, Ch 13 
Armor Class: "2 Hit points: 55 

Equipment: staff ofpower, buckle of protec 
tion AC3, ring of protection * 4, cape of 
protection + 1, wand of negation; wand of 
lightning bolts 

Spellbook 

Level I: charm person, detect magic, light, 
magic missile, read Magic, read lan 
guages, ventriloquism 

Level If: detect evil, detect invisible, ESP, 
invisibility, mirror image, web 
Level III: dispel magic, fire ball, fly, protec 
tion from normal missiles, water breath 
ing 

Level IV; (IV)dimension door, hallucinatory 
terrain, polymorph self, polymorph oth 
ers, wizard eye 

Level V: doudkill, contact outer plane, pass- 
wall, teleport 

Level VI: anti-magic shell, geas', move 
earth, weather control 

Level VII: delayed blast fire ball, lore, mass 
invisibility, sword; 

Level VIII: force field, mind barrier, symbol 
Level IX: contingency, meteor swarm, time 
stop 

A scholar as well as an adventurer, Adik 
spends much of his time writing poetry and 
studying art, ethics, and politics. Adik just 
recently began studying Immortality. 


Lucci Dhay 

Neutral 29th level Thief 

St 13, Dx 17, In 10. Co 10, W 15, Ch 14 
Armor Class: ~ 1 Hit points: 72 

Equipment: sword *3; small net + 2; long 
bow + 1; 12 arrows *3; leather armor 
+ 3; ring of protection +2; scroll of crea 
tion, flying carpet (for 10 people) 

Thieves' Abilities: OL 106, FT 103, RT 
109. CW 115, MS 93, HS 86, PP 160, 
HN 116 

Originally a resident of the Grand Duchy of 
Karameikos, Lucci was forced to flee from 
her home many years ago after being wrongly 
accused of a crime. Norwold provides ample 
opportunities for her to practice her craft and 
places to hide if her adventures do not go as 
planned. 

Delsel Oaktree 

10th level neutral Elf (Attack Rank M) 

S 12, Dx 18, In 12, Co 15, W 11, Ch 10 
Armor Class: - 7 Hit points: 42 

Equipment: sword + 2, vs. lycanlhropcs *3 
(skilled proficiency); longbow + 2(master 
proficiency), 10 arrows +3, 5 arrows of 
blinding +2; chain mail +5; shield of 
reflecting +4; elven cloak; elven boots 

Spellbook 

Level I: charm person, detect magic, floating 
disk, light, magic missile, read magic, 
shield, sleep, ventriloquism 
Level II :detect evil, ESP, invisibility, knock, 
minor image, phantasmal force, web, 
wizard lock 

Level III: dispel magic, fire ball, fly, haste, 
Ughtning bolt, water breathing 
Level IV: charm monster, dimension door, 
polymorph self, wall of fire, wizard eye 
Level V: contact outer plane; dissolve, pass- 
wall. telekinesis, teleport 

Delsel and his followers are misfits. Unable to 
adjust to danhome life, they have sought out 
the company of humans. He has occasional 
contacts with others of his kin, but as he finds 
humans more interesting he seldoms visits an 
elven community for long. 


32 




MAP V: Norwold 


Week 4: "2. #3. 

#2 remain* or sail* to 
Hclskir. 

#3 sail* to Hclskir. 

Week 16: Thyati* take* 
over Norlan. if applicable. 
Unit #2 escape*. _ 


Landfall 


Hclskir 


Week 7: All force* 
prr*cnt sail out toward 
Alpha. 


Week 15: Remnant* of 
the Raider* land and 
entrench Here. 

Week 16: Thyatis tukes 
over Norlan: #2. #3. H 
escape. 


^XCCOQCWS^k 


jmM 

Week 1: *1. *1. *". 

J[| 

jr 1, #4 remain or tail to 



Hclskir. 

*3 sails to Landfall. 



Week 16: Thyati* take* 

fee: 


over Norlan. if applicable. 


1986 TSR Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in U.S.A 

































1 





Great Ba 


Regent Pass 


Week 10: All force, 
from HcUku aoiuli They 

lo the 


remain or leav 
Beachhead. 

Week 16 or 19: 
lit vatic at rivet. 

Week 20: #34 arrive 



ill 1 1 j 

n(r) 

Key 

Capital 

Port/City 

<kj 

Clanhold 

IJ 

Lake/Bay/Ocean 


River 

1 A 

Mountain 

/ 

Major Divide- 

>i a 

Volcano 

v j *l# # 

Marsh 

1* 

Fortified City 


Pass 

T (c) 

Beachhead 

Scale: 1 hex  24 mile* 


4: Fly im* tactic 
ts move from hire. 





* JL r. 

i r a 

ii 

Magical Gate 

jHKJ I I 

ill/ 

















MONSTERS' STATISTICS CHART 


NAME 

Adaptor 

Air Elemental Ruler 
Athach 

Beholder 

Beholder, und cad 

Drake (canh) 


Dragon, Large Red 

Droletn Construct 

Earthquake Beetle 
Fortios (NEC) 

Giant. Fire 
Giant, Young Fire 
Giant. Mountain 

Golem, Super 
Hellhound 
Hellhound, giant 

Hsiao Simulacrum 
Invisible Stalker 
Leandrax (NPC) 

Magic-User 
Manscorpion 

Manscorpion, cleric 
Men. Artillerists 
Men. Servants 

Militiamen 
Mek 
Mi. 

Nighlwalkcr 
Nightwin^^ 



AC 

HD 

hp 

AT 

D 

MV 

AL 

THACO 

BOOK 

SA 

SD 

9 

8* 

49 

2 

5-12/5-12 

20' (40') 

C 

11 

Mast. 

Yes 

Yes 

-12 

50 

200 

2 

9d!2x2 

120'(40') 

N 

1 

Mast. 

Yes 

Yes 

0 

14' 

92 

4 

2dl2x3/2dl0 

180' (60') 

C 

8 

Mast. 

Yes 

No 

0/2/7 

n* 

50/20 

12x10 

1 

2d 10 

60'(20') 

C 

10 

Comp. 

Yes 

No 

-4/-2Z3 

40* * 

90/30 

1 

2-20 

60'(20') 

C 

1 

Mast. 

Yes 

Yes 


20x10 









0 

6" 

38 

3 

Id3x2/Id8 + 2 

120'(40) 
30'(10') 

N 

14 

Mast. 

Yes 

Yes 

3 

15* ** 

86 

6 

8d4/2d6x5 

120 '( 40 ') 

300'(100') 

c 

6 

Comp. 

Yfei 

No 

-3 

20* +60 

183 

3 

2<I6 + 6(x2)/ 

120 ' ( 40 ') 

N 

5 

Comp. 

Yes 

Yes 





1(120+13 

240'(80') 






6 

40 ** 

180 

5 

6d6/4dl0.\4 

I80'(60') 

N 

1 

Mast. 

Yes 

No 

9 

1 

2 

1 

bv weapon 

90'(30') 

N 

20 

NPC 

No 

No 

4 

11 +2* 

65 

1 

5d6 

120 ' (40 ') 

C 

9 

Exp. 

No 

Yes 

4 

10 

45 

1 

4d6 

120'(40') 

C 

10 

- 

No 

Yes 

0 

20* 

107 

1 

5d 10 

150'(50') 

N 

5 

Mail. 

No 

No 

3 

20 + 60 

150 

2 

3dl0 + 9(x2) 

240'(80') 

N 

5 

Comp. 

Yes Yes 

4 

7* 

35 

1 

Id6 

120 ' (40 ') 

C 

12 

Exp. 

Yes 

No 

1 

7+21* 

56 

1 

ld6 + 3 

120'(40') C 

12 

Exp. 

Yes 

No 

5 

14'** 

95 

3 

ld6x2/l-4 

90'(30') 

C 

13 

Mast. 

Yes 

No 

3 

8* 

40 

1 

4d4 

120'(40') 

N 

12 

Exp. 

No 

Yes 

9 

F5 

30 

1 

by weapon 

I20'(40') 

L 

17 

NPC 

No 

No 


26* 

68 

1 

idin 

90'(30') 

C 

9 

Mast. 

Yes 

Yes 

fi 

15 

48 

1 

ld4 

120'(40') 

c; 

15 

- 

Yes 

No 

0 

8** 

48 

2 

3d6/ldl0 

240'(80') 

C 

11 

Comp. 

Yes 

No 

1 

9* * * 

54 

2 

3d6/ld!0 

240'(80') 

C 

10 

Comp. 

Yes 

No 

3 

2 

12 

1 

Id6 

120'(40') 

N 

20 

Basic 

No 

No 




Peasants 

Pegataur 

Pegataur Sergeant 


Purple Woi 
Revcncr 



Wererat 
Wyvern. giant 
Zargos (NPC) 


1 cl4 

Idfi 


I20'(40') 

90'(30') 


N 


20 

18 


Basil 

NPC 


No No 

No No 


4 

16* * 

96 

2 

6dl0x2 

90'(30') 

C 

7 

Mast. Yes Yes 

4 

8* 

40 

2 

Id6x2 

120'(40') 

C 

11 

Comp. Yes No 

-6 

26*' 

169 

2 

3d10x2 

150'(50') 

C 

2 

Mast. Yes Yes 






60'(20') 




-8 

17* 

94 

1 

Id6 + 6 

30' (10') 

C 

7 

Mast. Yes Yes 






240'(80) 




9 

1 

2 

1 

by weapon 

90'(30') 

N 

19 

NPC No No 

0 

10** 

50 

3 

Id6x2 

I80'(60') 

N 

10 

New Yes No 






360'(120') 




1 

12** 

64 

3 

Id6x2 

!80'(60') 

N 

9 

New Yes No 






360' (120') 




6 

15* 

100 

2 

2d8/ld8 

60'(20') 

N 

8 

Exp. Yes No 

4 

10* 

55 

1 

special 

180'(60') 

C 

10 

Mast. Yes No 

2 

6** 

40 

1 

ld8/spccial 

150'(50') 

C 

1* 

Exp. Y'es Yes 

9 

3* 

15 

1 

lilt. 

120'(40') 

C 

17 

Basic Yes No 

0 

7+21* 

70 

2 

2d8 + 6/ld6 + 3 

90'(30') 

C 

12 

Exp. Yes No 

9 

1 

3 

1 

by weapon 

120 '(40 ') 

N 

18 

NPC No No 


*' This creature has (our special abilities. 
* This creature has five special abilities. 































Norwold 


4 MAP I Players' Map 

Scale: I he* * 24 mile* * * 


(c)Lcelta 


Oceanic ml () 


licUkir 


Landfall, 


Isle of Dawn 


t m 


Key 

(r) 

Capital 


Port/City 

 

(Ian hold 


l.akt-' 1 Bay /Ocean 


River 

A 

Mountain 

/ 

Major Divide 

A 

Volcano 

"#, 

March 


 > & * _  /-j 






mm i 



Vengeance of Alphaks 

by Skip Williams 



Centuries ago. the despotic Alphaks, ruler of 
Alphatia, was banished to another world. From 
his own sphere of entropy he learned to manip 
ulate men, and now he seeks revenge against 
the human race. 

The volatile region of Norwold. a perennial 
battleground between Thyatis and Alphatia, 
draws Alphaks's attention. The already exist 
ing frictions, small-time political players, and 
petty vengeances are the sparks Alphaks will 
use to ignite a huge war that will destroy man 
kind. 

This is an adventure of politics and diplo 
macy, of treachery and treason. Only coura 
geous and bold action can save Norwold from 
the horrors of war and liberate its people from 
oppression. 


This adventure is for use with the DUNGEONS & 
DRAGONS' rules, and cannot be played without 
the D&D Basic, Expert, Companion, and 
Master Sets produced by TSR Inc. 


1986 TSR Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed In the U.S.A. 


TSR Inc. 

POB 756 
Lake Geneva. 
Wl 53147 


TSR UK Ltd. 
The Mill, Rathmore Road 
Cambridge. CB14AD 
United Kingdom 


0-88038 27 I 6 

ISBN 394-55414-0TSR0800 






























