Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "Tsr 09120 When.a. Star. Falls. UK 4.( 3 5).(no. OCR.or. BM)"
See other formats


Adventure Module for Character Levels 3-5 


9120 


Advanced 

Dungeons||pragons 

Official Game Adventure 

WHEN A STAR FALLS 

by Graeme Morris 



Hurled like a blazing spear from the night sky, the shooting-star would shape 
the fates of many - so it was written. Yours is the chance to reforge destiny. 
There is everything to gain ... or to lose . . . 


TSR, Inc. 

PRODUCTS OF YOUR IMAGINATION(tm) 

ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS and PRODUCTS OF YOUR IMAGINATION are trademarks owned by 
TSR, 














Advanced 

Dungeons^-pragons 

_ Adventure Module for 6-10 characters, levels 3-5 

WHEN A STAR FALLS 

By Qraeme Morris 


The shooting-star.... omen of power. To some it was the agent of 
disaster, but to one old man in his tower it came as no surprise. 


CONTENTS 


CREDITS 


INTRODUCTION 2 

....of Books and a Shooting-Star 2 

....of Shalfey, Piyarz and the Adventurers 2 Course of this Adventure 3 
Starting the Adventure 3 Geography 3 Abbreviations 3 

DEATH ON THE MOORS (encounter area M, Map 1) 4 

Memories from the Web 4 

RANDOM ENCOUNTERS 6 


Storyline: Phil Gallagher, Tom Kirby, 
Graeme Morris 
Production/Editing: Jim Bambra, 
Phil Gallagher, Tom Kirby 
Design: Paul Cockburn, Kim Daniel 
Art: Jeremy Goodwin 

Cartography: Paul Ruiz 


PIYARZ'S SHADOW (encounter areas SI-2, Map 1) 

Sion and his Pets 7 Details of Sion, the Raven and the Shadow Mastiff 7 

CWM CERNANT (encounter areas C1-7, Map 2 - Plan C) 

Arrival at Cwm Cernant 8 Meeting with Derwyth 8 

Details of Derwyth and his Household 9 Derwyth's Homestead 9 

Larger Woodland Creatures 10 

THE DERRO LAIR (encounter areas D1-11, Map 3 - Plan D) 

Recent Events 11 Damage to the Lair 11 Outside the Lair 11 
Underground Chambers 11 

THERNO PASS (encounter areas PI-4, Map 4) 

Encounter Areas 15 

TOWER OF THE HEAVENS (encounter areas T1-21, Map 5 - Plan T) 

Reaching the Tower 17 Entry to the Tower 17 Piyarz's Coup 17 
Occupants of the Tower 17 Ferry 18 Smaller Island 18 
Main Tower 19 Visitors'Area 19 Garrison's Quarters 20 
Sages' Chambers 21 Shalfey's Tower 24 

FORGE OF THE KAGU-SVIRFNEBLI (encounter areas K1-12, Map 6 - Plan K) 

Anticipated Course of this Part of the Adventure 27 Outside the Lair 27 
Inside the Forge 28 

NEW MONSTERS 

Maschin-i-Bozorg 32 Memory Web 32 


7 

3 MAPS AND PLANS 

OUTER FOLDER 

INSIDE 

11 Cwm Cernant Plan C 

Derro Lair Plan D 

Forge of the Kagu-Svirfnebli Plan K 

15 

^ INNER FOLDER: 


OUTSIDE 

The Region Map 1 

Near Cwm Cernant Map 2 

Near the Derro Lair Map 3 

27 Therno Pass Map 4 

Near the Tower of the Heavens Map 5 
Near the Forge Map 6 

32 INSIDE 

Tower of the Heavens Plan T 


(c)1984, TSR, Inc. All rights reserved 

This module is protected under the laws of the 
United States of America. Any reproduction or other 
unauthorised use of the material or artwork contain 
ed herein is prohibited without the express written 
permission of TSR, Inc. 

ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS and FIEND 
FOLIO are registered trademarks owned by TSR, 
Inc. AD&D is a trademark owned by TSR, Inc. 


If you have any questions regarding this or any other 
TSR(r) product, please write to: 


TSR, Inc. 
POB 756 
Lake Geneva, 
Wl 53147 


TSR (UK) Ltd. 

The Mill, Rathmore Road 
Cambridge CB14AD 
United Kingdom 


Distributed to the book trade in the United States by 
Random House, Inc. and in Canada by Random 
House of Canada, Ltd. Distributed to the toy and 
hobby trade by regional distributors. Distributed in 
the United Kingdom by TSR UK Ltd. 

ISBN 0-88038-123-X 
394-54161-8TSR0600 


9120 


Printed in USA 


INTRODUCTION 



Lor BOOKS AND - 

, of Prophecy are the well guardetf tr ^ r^ s tomes speafe 
¦ might of swords or wands- ^ ^ 


hfunt establish^* Some 

claim tfiat they rfistani future aiui sent into P Boofes to 6e not 

*• 

only the 6earers 6ut also tne 
cerUnshootmg-suxr.... 


pzzUXOtr**- 

_r r__ C/i/io til 


certain sfiooting. Xfierno Pnss, ^ 

as no surprise. "f Prophecy to 


This man is 

who eamelB^orehi^^ 

: ¦a-siSS.i-- 


whom to select his own successor. Although he 

""= 3 £= 2 £;SS 2 

§ 32 Si?s"= 

^LLn"fi"the6oohs. 


smiths who; iu return wo P (or whatever) wrote 


smiths who> itt return* wouta prw~~ ^ ^ 

.. sto%> " ," "± SSl <? ^ 


????i 


¦OFSHALFEX P1XARZ 4.VO ' ^ ^ 

""*""< * *- m£ ' 4dventu ""s 



But i 


1 "o ptun is perfect, and fate had ^ , 

Tfi JMehadtwo citrickstefitopCay 

Tf * a 9 a *ofthejirsttri c A w ^(tm).- " 


/ - J^^witwocrueCtr 

for. "yaT*(r) Pi - Var ^- Shaljey's pupil and hi 

;. to sCKSLT^ 

1 s "" power fau, daunted • aniZdZ ^ 

mininne c. _•. . me<1 qv t/ic broafum* ^ meal chance to 


power fa,*, dauMed Zr:;^ 1 (tm)' P 
virions hesitated to^rifi ^ ^ pfospea 
; of fas fcri^T" to Stnfe nndSHalfev wa, , 


C . A . ;-7v 9 w"(] 

^^MenSfudJey's^ 

t y oTs s 7 culicka ^' uwcet ° 

°£ "enefuzy, Pi M 
nble to retreat int^.f./^ 









COURSE OF THIS ADVENTURE 

The most likely course of the adventure is as follows: 

1 . DEATH ON THE MOORS (page 4). The adventure begins on 
the moors south-east of the Tegefed mountains when the 
player characters encounter the memory web which killed 
Shalfey's monks.- If they kill the web, the adventurers will 
acquire many of the monks' memories, including the purpose 
of their mission. 

2. CWM CERNANT (pages 8-10). The druid-sage Derwyth 
lives at Cwm Cernant, protected by many animals. If the 
adventurers approach Derwyth peacefully, he will tell them 
upon payment that the shooting-star fell to earth in Therno 
Pass. 

3. DERRO LAIR (pages 11-14). Unknown to Derwyth, the 
shooting-star crashed on a derro lair in the pass, killing most of 
the occupants. The survivors have found the rock and have 
taken it into their ruined halls. To gain the shooting-star, the 
party must first find the lair and then overcome the occupants. 

4. THERNO PASS (pages 15 and 16). If the party travels north 
through Therno Pass on their way from the derro lair to the 
Tower of the Heavens, they will encounter a band of human 
hunters and their beaver allies. Both are very suspicious and 
the party will have great difficulty avoiding combat with them. 

5. TOWER OF THE HEAVENS (pages 17-26). Before they can 
bring the shooting-star to Shalfey, the adventurers must 
overcome Piyarz and his conspirators. They will be aided in 
this by information from the monk who ferries visitors across 
the river to the tower. When they reach Shalfey, he will offer 
them a great reward in return for taking the shooting-star to the 
smiths and bringing back the Books of Prophecy. 

6. FORGE OF THE KAGU-SVIRFNEBLI (pages 27-31). The 
smiths spoken of by the books are svirfnebli who have a hidden 
forge in the Tegefed mountains. Once the adventurers have 
forced an entry to the forge, the smiths will willingly give them 
the second set of books in return for the shooting-star. The 
smiths will then depart, sealing their route behind them, and 
leaving the party to the attentions of a pair of red dragons! 

The location and time of the encounter between the party and 
Sion, PIYARZ'S SHADOW, will depend on the movements of 
the adventurers (see page 7). 

STARTING THE ADVENTURE 

Before the adventure, the party should have some knowledge 
of the geography of the region. To simulate this knowledge, 
the DM should provide the players with a rough map based on 
Map 1 (on the module folder). This players' map should show 
the major geographical features (mountains, river and roads) 
but must not show the position of Cwm Cernant, the Derro 
Lair, the hunters' camp in Therno Pass or the Forge of the 
Kagu-Svirfnebli. The DM may choose whether or not to show 
the position of the Tower of the Heavens, depending on how 
the adventure is to begin (see below). 

The adventure begins with the encounter between the party 
and the memory web which has killed Shalfey's monks (see 
DEATH ON THE MOORS - page 4) at the point marked M on 
Map 1. Thus the DM must find some means of bringing the 
party to this point. For example: 


- for a dramatic start to the adventure, the party should see the 
fall of the shooting-star while at a place 3-4 days journey to the 
south of hex M. This place will be outside Map 1, and so could 
be within the DM's own campaign world. The DM should hint 
that the shooting-star is an important omen and that an 
explanation may be sought from the sages of the Tower of the 
Heavens. The party would then encounter the memory web 
while journeying to the tower. 

- for a less dramatic (but also less complicated) beginning the 
party should not see the shooting-star and should simply 
encounter the memory web while journeying along the road 
through hex M for some other purpose. 

GEOGRAPHY 

The major events of this module take place in the region shown 
on Map 1 which shows the Tegefed mountains and the 
surrounding foothills and moors. 

The mountains are lofty, rugged and impassable, with some 
snow on the upper peaks even in summer. The hills and moors 
are wild with only sparse trees and no towns or villages. The 
river Keldir is very broad, and can only be crossed by boat or 
raft. The other rivers in the region, however, may be forded 
with little difficulty. 


ABBREVIATIONS 

In this module, the statistics of monsters and non-player 
characters have been standardised. The information is given 
after the monster's/NPC's name, as follows: 

AC = Armour Class; MV = Movement Rate; HD = Hit Dice 
(monsters) or Class/Level (NPCs - see below); hp = current hit 
points (figures in brackets indicate maximum hit points of 
wounded creatures); #AT = Number of Attacks; D = Damage 
Caused by Attacks; SA = Special Attacks; SD = Special 
Defences; MR = Magic Resistance; Int = Intelligence (monsters 
and minor NPCs only); AL = Alignment; Ability Scores (major 
NPCs only - see below); Size (monsters and minor NPCs only); 
xp = Experience Points awarded for overcoming; THACO (see 
below); Source of further information. 

The following additional abbreviations are used: C = Cleric, 
D = Druid, F = Fighter, P = Paladin, R = Ranger, M = Magic User, 
I = Illusionist, T = Thief, A = Assassin, Mk = Monk, S = Strength, 
I = Intelligence, W = Wisdom, D = Dexterity, C= Constitution, 
Ch = Charisma, MM = AD&D(tm) Monster Manual, MMII = AD&D 
Monster Manual II, FF = FIEND FOLIO(r) tome, PHB = AD&D 
Players Handbook, DMG = AD&D Dungeon Masters Guide. 

THACO = To Hit Armour Class Zero. This is the roll on a d20 
needed by a creature to hit an opponent with AC 0 (see DMG 
pi96-215). In most cases, the roll needed to hit other armour 
classes = THACO-AC. Some creatures, whose hit probability 
is very low, have been given THACO of 20^, and in these 
instances the DM should consult the relevant tables (see DMG 
p74-5) to find the rolls needed to hit other armour classes. 

BOXED SECTIONS include that information which the 
characters would get from the first sight of an area or room. 
The DM may either paraphrase or read them out as written. In 
cases where player characters would instantly recognise the 
monsters seen, the DM should substitute the monsters' 
name(s) for the description. 


INTRODUCTION 3 



DEATH ON THE MOORS 

(encounter area ftt Map 1) 


The adventure begins when the party encounters the memory 
web which has killed Shalfey's monks (see STARTING THE 
ADVENTURE - page 3). If the adventurers kill the web, they will 
acquire many of the monks' memories: 


The moors, though bleak, have their own stark 
beauty. They rise and dip like the waves of a frozen 
sea, with only occasional splashes of vivid yellow 
gorse to relieve the dark green and purple of the 
blanketing heather. 

Coming to the top of yet another rise, you look down 
into the hollow beyond. There, highlighted against 
the heather, lie four unmoving white-robed figures 
enmeshed by a mass of pale, clinging strands. 


Although the strands are indistinguishable at a distance from 
those produced by a web spell, they are actually a memory 
web. When first seen, the memory web will be only about 100 
feet from the adventurers and will launch itself towards them, 
drawn by the desire for yet more memories on which to feed. If 
the party kills the web, it will release some of the memories it 
has absorbed from the monks (see below). 

1 memory web: AC 2; MV 3" or leap 18"; HD 6; hp 18(40); #AT 1; 
D 1-6; SA Nil; SD Non-magical weapons do only half damage; 
MR Std; Int Very; AL N; Size Variable; xp 408; THACO 13; New 
monster. 

The white-robed figures are Shalfey's monks. They are 
wearing white robes and rope belts, and were carrying staffs, 
water-skins and parcels of dried provisions. The only item of 
value which the party will find is a book. This is an illustrated 
bestiary (value - 120gp) which the monks were taking to 
Derwyth at Cwm Cernant as payment for information about 
the shooting-star. The draining of the monks' minds by the 
web means that spells such as speak with dead will be 
ineffectual if used on them. 


MEMORIES FROM THE WEB 

When the memory web is killed, many of the memories it has 
absorbed will be released. All characters within 200 feet of the 
web will experience a telepathic shock-wave as a barrage of 
memories floods into their minds. Most of these will be lost 
almost instantly, leaving nothing more tangible than a half- 
forgotten dream. 

The following images, however, will lodge firmly in each 
character's memory. Some of them are vital to the course of the 
adventure (shown in bold type), and relate to recent events in 
the monks' lives. The DM should mention to the players that 
these images strike them as being particularly significant and 
vivid. 

The images become so much a part of the characters' 
memories that they may be instantly recalled. The DM should 
read out the memories to the players and, if asked, should 
repeat any of them at any point during the adventure. 

4 DEATH ON THE MOORS 


1 ....hurry, Shalfey our master calls.... he Is afraid.... we 

must find the shooting-star.... or die.... 

2 ....guards everywhere.... there is no better defended 

tower.... our master will be in safe hands.... 

3 "....you will not mistake it.... a black rock seared by great 

heat.... dull and seemingly worthless.... only the fallen 
star can help us.... I implore you, do not return without 
it...." 

4 ....he said the ground trembled.... the mountains too.... 

tales of a great iron dragon.... never sleeping.... 

5 ....hard beds and plain walls.... ornamentation is naught 

but distraction.... 'tis discipline that focuses the 
mind.... 

6 ....the sun shines on green dales in the pass where 

hunters need never go hungry.... but not for me is the 
life of freedom.... the brotherhood beckons.... 

7 ....the daily ritual.... waiting behind the curtain.... endless 

questions.... at last, payment is received and we are 
released.... 

8 "....wild beast-men in the mountains?" - "Nay, brother, 

'tis only the idle tale of some merchant...." 

9 "Master, I am afraid" - "Trust me, and believe" - "But it 

moves.... I shall fall.... the chasm" - "Have faith...." 

10 "Remember It well.... 'Fair is the day.... but fairer the 

jewels of evening' " 

11 ....a scream in the night.... father swinging his sword in 

tear-stained rage.... my younger sister kidnapped by 
the devil men.... 

12 ....Piyarz, never far away.... Piyarz, with shifty eyes and 

malicious tongue.... his cursed shadow always at his 
side 

13 ....one last good meal before departure.... fresh bread 

and fried fish.... the fare will be much leaner on the 
road.... 

14 "Do you never covet the questioners' gold ?" - "No, nor all 

the magic in the world...." 

15 Mirek! No! ....too late.... my brother, lost in the maze.... He 

returns.... nay, 'tis only his body - his mind is gone 
forever.... 

16 "Make haste to Derwyth's home In a green wood.... at the 

southernmost tip of the mountains.... a valley.... but 
harm no living thing!" 

17 "Learn this well, my son.... trust given in doubt honours 

the giver.... faith, once broken, can never be 
repaired...." 

18 ....the walls are closing in.... the ceiling falls, and just out 

of sight.... a nameless fear animates the dark.... 

19 "Go, seek for Derwyth the half-elven.... a star-watcher.... 

give him this bestiary.... only he can tell you where the 
shooting-star came to earth.... It must be found.... and 
soon...." 

In addition, the players will gain absolutely accurate know 
ledge of the location of the Tower of the Heavens and the DM 
should indicate this on the players' map if he has provided 
them with one. 

The memories are taken from the day of the monks' departure 
from the tower (nos. 1,3,10,13,16and 19), from their general 
experiences at the tower (nos. 2, 5, 7, 9, 12 and 15), from 
rumours and pieces of advice they have heard (nos. 4,8,14 and 
17), and from their childhood recollections (nos. 6,11 and 18). 



















RANDOM ENCOUNTERS 

Except in Cwm Cernant, the Derro Lair, the Tower of the Heavens and the Forge of the Kagu-Svirfnebli, 
random encounters will 
occur on a roll of 1 on a d6 in each 6 hour period (i.e. roll twice each day and twice each night) or at the 
discretion of the DM. If 
a random encounter is indicated, the DM should determine the type of creature by rolling a d20 and 
consulting the appropriate 
table below. The DM may choose either to dictate the number of creatures which appear, or to use the 
ranges indicated. Each 

random encounter will occur once only. 


FOOTHILLS - DAY 

1-4 The party will see the gory remains of a freshly killed 
and partially devoured wild horse. Fifteen minutes 
later, the party will be attacked by 1-2 griffons (AC 3; 
MV 12"/30"; HD 7; hp 35 each; #AT 3; D 1-4/1-4/2-16; 
SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Semi; AL N; Size L; xp 725 
each; THACO 13; MM) in search of further prey. The 
griffons' lair is in a cave a mile away. The nest contains 
an egg (value - 2000gp, if a buyer can be found). 

5-8 1-4 Mountain lions (AC 6; MV 15"; HD 3+1; hp 17 each; 
#AT 3; D 1-3/1-3/1-6; SA Rear claws for 1-4/1-4; 
SD Surprised only on a 1; MR Std; Int Semi; AL N; 
Size M; xp 178 each; THACO 16; MM). 

9-12 4-6 Giant sheep (AC 6; MV 15"; HD 4; hp 20 each; #AT 1; 
D 2-12; SA Charge (ram only); SD Nil; MR Std; 
Int Animal; AL N; Size L; xp 165 each; THACO 15; 
MM -ram, giant) comprising one ram and several ewes, 
stand over the bloody remains of four lambs, which 
have recently fallen prey to a group of mountain lions. 
The sheep will attack the adventurers on sight. 

13-15 1-4 Vortices (ACO; MV 15"; HD 2+2; hp 14each; #AT 1; 
D Nil (1st round), 1-3 (2nd and subsequent rounds); 
SA 5% cumulative chance per round of killing the 
victim; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Non; AL CN; Size L; xp 92 
each; THACO 16; FF). 

16-17 The party will notice what appearto be 2-5 skulls lying 
amid a scatter of loose rocks. If they approach to within 
4 feet, they will be attacked by 2-5 gambados (AC 6; 
MV 12"; HD 4; hp 19 each; #AT 3; D1-8/1-4/1-4; SA Nil; 
SD Nil; MR Std; Int Low; AL CN; Size M; xp 161 each; 
THAC015; FF). The pit of each of these creatures has a 
concealed hole, packed tightly with earth, containing 
3d4 gems (value - 50gp each). 

18-20 1-3 Ogres (AC 5; MV 9"; HD 4+1; hp 22 each; #AT 1; 
D 1-10; SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Low; AL CE; Size L; 
xp 200 each; THACO 15; MM) who are exercising a 
pack of four war dogs (AC 6; MV 12"; HD 2+2; hp 14 
each; #AT 1; D 2-8; SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Semi; 
AL N; Size M; xp 77 each; THACO 16; MM). 


FOOTHILLS - NIGHT 

1-3 2-5 Brown bears (AC 6; MV 12"; HD 5+5; hp 28 each; 
#AT3; D1-6/1-6/1-8; SA Hugs for 2-12; SD Nil; MR Std; 
Int Semi; AL N; Size L; xp 468 each; THACO 15; MM) 
who will continue to fight for 1d4 melee rounds after 
reaching 0 to -8hp. 

4-7 5-10 Bugbears (AC 5; MV 9"; HD 3+1; hp 15 each; 
#AT 1; D 2-8; SA Surprise on a 1-3; SD Nil; MR Std; 
Int Low; AL CE; Size L; xp 195 each; THACO 16; MM) 
will attack the party as it strikes camp. Each of the 
bugbears has dIO+IOgp in mixed coins. 

8-10 1-2 Doombats (AC 4; MV 18"; HD 6+3; hp 35 each; 
#AT 2; D 1-6/1-4;SAShriek;SD Nil; MR Std; Int Animal; 
AL NE; Size M; xp 645 each; THACO 13; FF) who will 
shriek for one round before attacking. 

11-12 A Caterwaul (AC 4; MV 18" or 24"; HD 4+2; hp 25; 
#AT3; D1-4/1-4/1-6; SA Screech, 3 attacks every 2 rounds; 
SD -2 AC bonus; MR Std; Int Low; AL CE; Size M; 
xp 295; THACO 15; FF) leaps onto the party from a 
rocky slope, screeching. 

13-15 The adventurers hear the sound of howling, receding 
into the night. One hour later they are attacked by 9-16 
wolves (AC 7; MV 18"; HD 2+2; hp 14each; #AT 1;D2-5; 
SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Semi; AL N; Size S; xp 77 
each; THACO 16; MM). 

16-18 The adventurers hear the noise of a fierce argument, 
and, if they investigate, they will find two trolls (AC 4; 
MV 12"; HD 6+6; hp 20 (36), 24 (35); #AT 3; D 5-8/5-8/ 
2-12; SA Body parts can fight separately; SD Regen 
eration; MR Std; Int Low; AL CE; Size L; xp 685, 717; 
THACO 13; MM) fighting about how to cook the 
carcass of a giant sheep, which is in a nearby sack . On 
seeing the adventurers, however, they will cease their 
brawl and move to attack. 

19-20 2-3 Jackalweres (AC 4; MV 12"; HD 4; hp 22 each; 
#1 AT 1; D 2-8; SA Gaze causes sleep; SD Iron or +1 
weapons to hit; MR Std; Int Very; AL CE; Size S(M); 
xp888 each; THAC015; MM) will attack in jackal form. 



6 RANDOM ENCOUNTERS 
















PIYARZ'S SHADOW 

(encounter areas SI andS2, Map 1) 


After the shooting-star fell, Shalfey, the Elder Sage of the 
Tower of the Heavens, sent out a group of monks to find it. 
When Shalfey's monk guards had gone, his pupil, Piyarz, 
attempted to take control of the tower. During his attempted 
coup, Piyarz captured one of the Elder Sage's scribes. Piyarz's 
questioning of this humble man was not gentle, and eventually 
the upstart sage discovered the reason for the expedition by 
the monks. 

Desiring to have the shooting-star himself, Piyarz sent out 
Sion, his most trusted and terrible servant, in pursuit of 
Shalfey's expedition. Sion had once been no more than one of 
the monks bound to service in the tower but, at his master's 
insistence, he had undergone the terrible rituals neccessary to 
become a shade (see MMII). No one suspected this trans 
formation, but all noticed that his devotion to Piyarz became 
even greater and, ironically, he acquired the nickname of 
'Piyarz's Shadow'. 

Sion himself has minions. Following his transformation, the 
shade/monk acquired a huge raven from which he is rarely 
parted. Also, unknown to all save Piyarz, Sion can summon a 
shadow mastiff from the plane of shadow. Details of Sion, the 
raven and the mastiff are given below. 

Since Sion is on the move, the actions of the party will 
determine where the adventurers encounter him. 


SION AND HIS PETS 

Sion was sent in pursuit of Shalfey's expedition on the night 
after the attempted coup, and swam the river in order to avoid 
detection. Later, he was joined by the raven and summoned 
the shadow mastiff. 

Travelling by night, hiding by day and using the raven as a 
scout, the monk/shade pursued Shalfey's envoys. When they 
were overcome by the memory web, Sion learned of their fate 
from the raven. The bird also saw the adventurers and told Sion 
who, having no other clue to follow, determined to hunt them 
down. 

Unless they have some special means of transport (e.g. flying), 
Sion will almost inevitably catch up with the adventurers. The 
place where this occurs will depend on the party's actions: 

51 If they travel anti-clockwise around the mountains, 
either before or after visiting Derwyth at CWM 
CERNANT (see page 8), the adventurers will be 
attacked by Sion during the first night after they enter 
any of the hexes marked SI on Map 1. 

52 If the party travels clockwise around the mountains, 

Sion will catch up with it, after the adventurers have 
left the TOWER OF THE HEAVENS (see page 17), on 
the first night after entering any of the hexes marked 
S2 on Map 1. 

When they catch up with the party, Sion, his hound and the 
raven will attack at night so as to gain the maximum advantage. 
Sion will produce his shadow images (if possible) before 


attacking. In the first round of the attack the shadow mastiff 
will attempt to panic the party by howling from the darkness. 
Even in normal darkness, the shade is a formidable opponent 
but if the adventurers have a fire or other light-source casting 
shadows he will be at his most dangerous (see MMII). 

If reduced to six or fewer hit points, and if he is able so to do, 
Sion will escape by means of his shadow-walk ability, never to 
return. The mastiff and raven will fight to the death as long as 
Sion is present (alive or dead) but will flee if he retreats by 
shadow-walking. 

DETAILS OF SION, THE RAVEN AND THE 
SHADOW MASTIFF 

SION - MONK, LEVEL 6, HUMAN/SHADE, MALE: 

AC 6; MV 20"; Mk6; hp 29 (+or- 7 or 14 according to lighting 
conditions); #AT3/2 or 1; D 2-8 (open hand) or 6-9 (dagger +2 
and monk ability); SA/SD As standard for class and abilities, 
plus regeneration (Ihp/turn), shadow-walk and shadow 
images (depending on lighting conditions) etc; MR Std or 30% 
(according to lighting conditions); AL LE; S15, 18, W15, D16, 
C17, Ch7 (all ability scores may change by +or- 1 or 2 
depending on the lighting conditions); xp 757; THACO 18 
(open hand) or 16 (dagger); MMII, PHB. 

Clothing - grey cloak, grey tunic with chain belt. 

Weapons - dagger +2. 

Personal treasure - none. 



1 huge raven: AC 6; MV 1"/27"; HD 1-1; hp 4; #AT 1; D 1-2; 
SA Attacks eyes; SD Never surprised, unless dark; MR Std; 
Int Low; AL N (E); Size M; xp 34; THACO 20; MMII. 

The bird knows several words of the common tongue and can 
communicate with Sion. It has no treasure. 

1 shadow mastiff: AC 6; MV 18" (9" in bright light); HD 4; hp 25 
(21 in bright light); #AT 1; D 2-8; SA Baying causes panic 
(negated if save vs. Spells at +9); SD Hides in shadows; MR Std; 
Int Semi; AL N(E); Size M; xp 285; THACO 15; MMII. 

This creature has no treasure. 

PIYARZ'S SHADOW (encounter areas SI-2) 7 








CIVM CERNANT 

(encounter areas Cl-7: Map 2 - Plan C) 


The monks sent out by the Elder Sage, Shalfey, were 
instructed to go to the druid-sage Derwyth who would tell 
them where the shooting-star had fallen. The adventurers will 
have learned of Derwyth from the memory web (see DEATH 

ON THE MOORS -page 4). 

Derwyth's home is in a valley called Cwm (pronounced coom) 
Cernant (see Map 2), surrounded by a small but lush wood. 
Many creatures live with Derwyth in the valley, some sharing 
his house. Most are small creatures which the adventurers will 
rarely, if ever, notice. These animals act as the eyes and ears of 
Derwyth, and will quickly convey news to him of events in the 
wood (particularly the arrival of strangers and their subsequent 
actions). They also convey messages to the more powerful 
animal inhabitants of the valley (see LARGER WOODLAND 
CREATURES). 

The adventurers will be met by two giant eagles when they 
arrive at the wood (see ARRIVAL AT CWM CERNANT). If they 
go to Derwyth peacefully (see MEETING WITH DERWYTH, 
DETAILS OF DERWYTH AND HIS HOUSEHOLD and 
DERWYTH'S HOMESTEAD) and give him the book sent by 
Shalfey, he will gladly supply them with the information they 
need in order to find the shooting-star. If they damage the 
woodland or his home, or if they attack him or his companions, 
the adventurers will have to fight for their lives (see DETAILS 
OF DERWYTH AND HIS HOUSEHOLD and LARGER WOOD 
LAND CREATURES). They will only be able to extract the 
information by taking Derwyth's notes back to Shalfey at the 
TOWER OF THE HEAVENS. 


ARRIVAL AT CWM CERNANT 

Two giant eagles spend most of their time soaring high over 
the valley, keeping a watch for intruders. When the party enters 
the wood, the eagles will fly down to meet it, being careful not 
to appear to be attacking, and will greet the adventurers, 
telepathically, as follows: 


'Welcome, ground-walkers - this is the home of 
Derwyth - if you come in peace, follow us - if not, leave 
now.' 

2 giant eagles: AC 7; MV 3"/48"; HD 4; hp 24 each; #AT 3; 
D 1-6/1-6/2-12; SA +4 to hit and double claw damage when 
diving; SD Never surprised during the day; MR Std; Int Ave; 
AL N; Size M; xp 246 each; THACO 15; MM. 

The telepathy of the eagles will allow for a limited conversation 
between them and the party and, if the adventurers are willing, 
the eagles will lead them to the homestead. If not, the eagles 
will tell them to leave. The eagles will attack the party if they are 
themselves attacked or if the adventurers refuse to leave. The 
battle will be joined by the other large woodland inhabitants 
(see LARGER WOODLAND CREATURES), who will arrive in 
1-6 rounds. 


MEETING WITH DERWYTH 

When the adventurers arrive at the homestead, Derwyth will 
have cast a tree spell on himself and will be standing amidst 

8 CWM CERNANT (Arrival / Meeting with Derwyth) 


some small trees at the eastern end of the yard. The other 
members of his household will also be hidden: the giant goats 
will be in the barn (C5), the gorilla will be in the hall (C2), and 
the sabre-tooth tiger will be in the store hut (C6). These 
creatures are described in DETAILS OF DERWYTH AND HIS 
HOUSEHOLD. The giant eagles will tell the party to wait in the 
yard and will then depart. 

To assure himself of the party's good intentions, Derwyth will 
observe the adventurers for up to 5 rounds, or until any of them 
approach the buildings. He will then revert to his normal form. 
If he is satisfied with the adventurers, he will invite them into 
the hall (C2) where the gorilla will serve them with food and 
drink. Until convinced of their good faith, Derwyth will take 
care not to reveal the presence of the tiger and the goats and 
will actively discourage characters from snooping around the 
homestead. 

If the adventurers attempt to harm or steal anything, or if they 
ignore any instructions, Derwyth will order them to stop. He 
will call on the gorilla and the tiger to back him up if necessary 
and, if attacked or as a last resort to assert his authority, he will 
order them to attack the party. If possible, he will cast an 
animal growth spell, preferably on the tiger. The giant goats 
will soon join the fray and news of the battle will spread to the 
other large creatures of the wood who will head towards the 
place. 

The party may restore good relations with Derwyth by backing 
down before combat starts. Furthermore, Derwyth will call off 
his friends at any point during the fight if the adventurers sue 
for peace, but will thereafter insist that they leave the valley 
immediately. 

Once they have eaten, the sage will ask the adventurers their 
business. If they relate their experiences and detail the 
fragments of memory from the memory web to him, Derwyth 
will realize that the mission of the party killed by the creature 
was to find the shooting-star, and he will explain this to the 
adventurers if necessary. It will be obvious to Derwyth that 
Shalfey intended him to work out the landing-place of the 
shooting-star. 

Before Derwyth begins his calculations he will ask for 
payment. He will gladly accept the bestiary sent by Shalfey 
(see DEATH ON THE MOORS - page 4), but will otherwise 
demand 1500gp. Derwyth will retire to his library (C4) with the 
gorilla and tiger for 4 hours in order to perform his calculation, 
and will instruct the adventurers to remain within the 
homestead. The party will be under the constant surveillance 
of a host of small creatures (insects and so on) who will report 
to Derwyth. He will no longer mind if the party wanders around 
the homestead so long as they do not steal, damage or harm 
anything. 

When he returns he will tell them that the shooting-star has 
come to earth somewhere in Therno Pass (he will tell them 
where the pass is) and that it is inhabited by derro. 
Unfortunately, all he knows about this strange race of 
humanoids is that they live underground, shun the light of day 
and are feared for their savage attacks on man and beast alike. 

After giving them this information, the sage will ask the party to 
leave. On their way out of the valley, the adventurers will be 
escorted by the giant eagles. 






"Go seek for Derwyththe hcdf-eiven.... a star-watcher.... give him 
this bestiary.... only he can teCCyou where the shooting-star came 
to earth.... It must be found.... and soon.... }} 



DETAILS OF DERWYTH & HIS HOUSEHOLD 

DERWYTH - DRUIDIC SAGE, HALF-ELF, MALE: 

AC 10; MV 12"; HP 22; #AT Nil; D Nil; SA/SD Spell casting; 

MR Std; AL N; S 9, I 16, W 17, D 13, C 13, Ch 14; xp 240; 

THACO N/A. 

Clothing - hooded green cloak over brown tunic embroidered 
with leaf pattern in green; woven belt. 

Spells memorised (cast as if 9th level druid) - entangle, cure 
light wounds, tree (probably cast), cure serious wounds, 
animal growth. 

Languages spoken - common, elf, gnome, dryad, sprite, 
centaur. 

Major field of knowledge - fauna (arachnids, avians, insects 
and mammals). 

Minor fields of knowledge - physical universe, flora. 

Personal treasure - golden sickle (value - 250gp); a pipe, tinder 
box and tobacco; carved oaken walking-stick with ivory 
unicorn's head handle (value - 50gp); silver armband 
bearing one emerald (value - 800gp); a silver medallion 
depicting a centaur (value - 500gp). 

Living at Derwyth's homestead are the following creatures: 

1 sabre-tooth tiger: AC 6; MV 12"; HD 7+2; hp 45; #AT 3; 

D 2-5/2-5/2-12; SA Rear claws 2-8/2-8; SD Surprised only on a 

1; MR Std; Int Animal; AL N; Size L; xp 1000; THACO 11; MM. 

3 giant goats: AC 7; MV 18"; HD 3+1; hp 18 each; #AT 1; D 2-16; 

SA+4 damage when charging; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Semi; AL N; 

Size L; xp 157 each; THACO 16; MM. 

1 gorilla: AC 6; MV 12"; HD 4+1; hp 22; #AT 3; D 1-3/1 -3/1-6; 

SA Rending; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Low; AL N; Size M; xp 240; 

THACO 15; MM - ape. 


DERWYTH'S HOMESTEAD 

The homestead is shown on Plan C. The buildings have thick 
turf walls about 4 feet high and the gable-ended roofs of thatch 
are supported by posts and beams of riven oak. The doors are 
of thick oak planks with wooden hinges and latches. Rooms 
C2, C3 and C4 are illuminated by baskets of fireflies hanging 
from the roofbeams. 

The descriptions of the rooms given below do not include the 
inhabitants of the homestead since these will be moving 
around while the party is present. 


Cl. Ante-Chamber 

This is a small room, leading to the main hall: 


This small room has hooks on the north wall from 
which hang two old cloaks and a number of walking- 
sticks. There is a pair of muddy boots on the floor, and 
a broom in the far corner. 



There are nine walking-sticks in all. They are unexceptional, as 
are the cloaks, boots and broom. 


CWM CERNANT (Derwyth's Household / encounter area Cl) 9 





"Make haste to Derwyth's home in a green wood ??? at the 
southernmost tip of the mountains """" a vatLey.... but harm no 

hving tfdngl" 



This is Derwyth's main living/dining room. It is here that he 
entertains his guests: 


C5. Barn 

The goats live here: 


The floor of this barn is covered with straw and there 
are bales stacked against the end walls. There is a 
strong, animal smell here. 


Six wooden posts support the roof of this simple, 
elongated hall. Against the walls are benches of 
rammed earth and, along the centre of the earthen 
floor, is a long hearth. 


On the benches are a number of wooden vessels containing 
vegetables, fruit, nuts, water, wine and beer. Hanging from a 
hook on one of the posts is a harp. It is made from plum wood 
and is inlaid with fine mithral wire (value - 1500gp). 


C3. Derwyth's Room 

This is the private chamber of the sage: 


This small, plain chamber contains a bed and a long, 
closed chest. In an alcove in the far wall is a small 
statue of a leaping stag. 


The chest is unlocked and untrapped. Its contents are: 

- clothes (human sized) including robes, cloaks, tunics, 
boots and sandals. All are old'and much repaired. 

- tools, including knives, spades, shovels, rakes and so on. 

- a bag containing 250gp. 

- miscellaneous ceramic and wooden vessels. 

- a ceramic flagon containing five doses of a potion of healing 
(effective on any mammal). 

The statue is carved from a large block of boxwood and is 
worth 800gp. The bed is unexceptional. 


C4. Library and Workshop 

This room is Derwyth's study, where he stores his books and 
scrolls: 

r-- ' 

Wooden shelves along the northern wall of this room 
hold a jumble of books and scrolls, many more of 
which have tumbled onto the floor. The table in the 
centre of the room bears a similar jumble in addition 
to quills, ink and so forth. 


The barn also contains a stool, a large milking-pail and vessels 
for cheese making. 

C6. Store 

This is the food store for the homestead: 


This circular hut has a conical roof supported by a 
central post. Neatly piled around the walls are dozens 
of sacks, casks, boxes and jars. 


There are sufficient supplies of vegetables, fruits, nuts, dried 
meat, cheese, flour, wine and beer to sustain Derwyth and his 
household for half a year. 


C7. Stone Circle 

Away from the homestead, on a steep-sided spur, Derwyth has 
constructed a circle, 40 feet in diameter, of 12 standing stones. 
Each stone is about 4 feet high and a foot or two across. 
Derwyth uses the circle as an astronomical observatory. 

LARGER WOODLAND CREATURES 

In many respects these creatures are animal friends of 
Derwyth, although their loyalty is not due to this spell but to 
long contact with the sage. They obey him and have orders to 
defend him, the homestead and the wood against aggressors, 
but to avoid peaceful visitors and leave them unharmed. They 
will perform their duties even at the cost of their own lives and, 
if Derwyth is killed, will spare no risk in order to avenge him. 
Once alerted to the presence of aggressors in the valley, the 
larger inhabitants will arrive at the source of danger after 1-6 
rounds. None of these has any treasure: 


which have tumbled onto the floor. The table in the 
centre of the room bears a similar jumble in addition 
to quills, ink and so forth. 


In all, there are 84 books and over 200 (non-magical) parchment 
scrolls. These constitute a comprehensive library of the sage's 
major and minor fields of study (fauna, physical universe and 
flora). The scrolls on the table include notes made by Derwyth 
concerning the fall of the shooting-star. Although the party will 
recognise these notes, only Shalfey at the observatory would be 
able to use them in order to calculate the landing point of the 
shooting-star. 

Other items in the room include two chairs, a stock of quills, ink 
and unused parchment. 


3 giant stags: AC 7; MV 21"; HD 5; hp 30 each; #AT 1 or 2; 
D 4-16 or 1-4/1-4; SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Animal; AL N; 
Size L; xp 240 each; THACO 15; MM. 

15 non-combatant female giant stags: AC 7; MV 21"; HD 5; 

hp 24 each; #AT Nil; D Nil; SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Animal; 
AL N; Size L; xp 0; THACO N/A; MM. 

9 giant wasps: AC 4; MV 6"/21"; HD 4; hp 24 each; #AT 2; 
D 2-8/1-4; SA Poison; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Non; AL N; Size M; 
xp 416 each; THACO 15; MM. 

2 adult giant otters: AC 5; MV 9"//18"; HD 5; hp 32 each; #AT 1; 
D 3-18; SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Semi; AL N; Size L; xp 250 
each; THACO 15; MM. 

5 huge spiders: AC 6; MV 18"; HD 2+2; hp 14 each; #AT 1; D1 -6; 
SA Leaps, poison, surprises on a 1-5; SD Nil; MR Std; 
Int Animal; AL N; Size M; xp 187 each; THACO 16; MM. 


10 CWM CERNANT (encounter areas C2-7 / Larger Woodland Creatures) 







THE DERRO LAIR 

(encounter areas (Dl-11: (Map 3 - (Plan (D) 


Theadventurersshould have littledifficultyfinding the point of 
impact of the shooting-star once they locate Therno Pass, 
since the effects of the blast can be seen up to a mile away, 
where the sparse trees have had their leaves blown off. Near 
the crater, all the trees have been blasted flat, with their trunks 
radiating from the point of impact. 

The adventurers must locate the entrance to the lair, defeat the 
derro and find the shooting-star (see D7). 


RECENT EVENTS 

Before the shooting-star struck, this lair was a derro outpost 
from which raids were made into the surrounding countryside. 
The lair was linked by a long tunnel to a much larger derro 
settlement deep under the mountains. 

The shooting-star struck the side of the pass directly above the 
lair, causing several rooms to cave in and killing most of the 
derro tribe and their slaves. The survivors found themselves 
cut off from both the surface and the tunnel leading to the 
larger settlement. 

The impact had also toppled and smashed the derro idol. 
Fascinated by the prospect of a power capable of doing this, 
they set out to find its source. Their first step was to have the 
surviving slaves dig a narrow tunnel through to the natural 
cavern (D4) to the west of their temple (D5). Following this, 
they were able to discover the crater (D1) and the shooting- 
star. The derro students (D7) are convinced that it is an object 
of great power and importance. They are determined to take it 
to the main derro stronghold, where they intend to use it to 
gain power and status. 

The first attempt to reach the tunnel leading from the eastern 
side of the lair (D11) resulted only in the collapse of the roof 
and the death of several slaves (see area D6). Since then, 
digging has been moved to the temple (D5). 

All the surviving derro have high dexterity (16), giving them a 
reaction/attacking adjustment of +1 and a defensive adjust 
ment of -2, and this has been included in their individual 
statistics. Full details of derro weaponry and society are given 

in the AD&D(tm) MONSTER MANUAL II. 


DAMAGE TO THE LAIR 

Damage to the lair is extensive and many parts are blocked by 
fallen masonry. Two types of rubble blockage are shown on 

Plan D: 

1. Around the edge of the damaged area, the rubble (marked 
with light stippling on Plan D) may be cleared safely at a 
rate of 40 cubic feet per hour per character. This means 
that, forexample, it will takeone person 15 hours to tunnel 
from D5 to D9,8 hours to dig through to the coffer corpses 
in D8, and 5 hours to break through into the lamia's lair in 
DIO. These times would be reduced proportionally if more 
than one character were involved. 


2. Nearer the point of impact, the rock above the lair has 
been completely shattered (marked on Plan D with a dark 
stipple). Rubble may be cleared at the same rate as above, 
but for each round spent digging in these areas there is a 
10% cumulative chance of a rock fall, inflicting 2d10 hit 
" points of damage (halved if the characters save vs. Breath) 
to all those within 15 feet of the digging. The DM should 
provide hints about the risks involved, describing, for 
example, how each rock shifted brings down a shower of 
loose pebbles, as the roof shifts and groans alarmingly. 


OUTSIDE THE LAIR 

D1. Crater 

The party should be able to deduce from the crater that the 
shooting-star has been taken away: 


The crater is nearly 100 feet across and about half as 
deep. The explosion which caused it must have been 
enormous. Rock has been thrown out in all directions 
but much has slid back down into the crater from the 
slopes above. In the very bottom of the crater, a deep 
hole has been excavated. 


The hole was dug in order to find the shooting-star. It is about 
20 feet deep. The derro drove their human slaves cruelly in 
order to finish the task during the hours of darkness. As a 
result, one of them collapsed and died and was thrown into the 
pit. Lying next to the corpse is a broken pick. 

UNDERGROUND CHAMBERS 

All rooms and corridors are 8 feet high. Doors are made of 
stone and may be opened with the usual chance of success. 


D2. Guardroom 

When the shooting-star struck, the outer (secret) door to this 
room was burst open. The occupants were killed by falling 
masonry and the room was cut off from the other chambers: 


The far wall of this room and much of the ceiling has 
collapsed. Sprawled on the floor, apparently killed by 
the falling rock, lie the corpses of five short, pale 
skinned humanoids. 


The surviving derro had no concern for their companions and 
the bodies have not even been pillaged. Each is wearing 
studded leather armour and was equipped with a footman's 
military pick. This equipment is now useless, however. In total 
the corpses have 22pp. 

The walls of the room are plain and it contains no furniture. 

THE DERRO LAIR (encounter areas D1-2) 11 




The adventurers will hear the sounds of digging from the 
temple (D5), accompanied by the harsh orders of the derro and 
the cries of the human slaves. Soon after the party arrives here, 
one of the slaves will appear at the mouth of the tunnel (from 
the temple) and empty a basket of small rocks onto the pile. He 
is insane and of no help to the party. If he does not return within 
2 rounds, two of the derro warriors will investigate. 

1 slave: AC 10; MV9"; F0; hp 1 (4); #AT Nil; D Nil; SA Nil; SD Nil; 
MR Std; Int Low; AL NG; Size M; xp 6; THACO N/A. 

The cave is about 30 feet high in its central area. The tunnel to 
the temple is only about 5 feet high and 4 feet wide. 

12 THE DERRO LAIR (encounter areas D3-4) 


....a scream in the nigfiL... father swinging His sward in tear- 
stained rage .... my younger sister kidnapped by the devil men .... 


D3. Outer Cave 


This natural cavern now serves as the guardroom for the derro. 
The entrance to the cave and the stream issuing from it are 
clearly visible from the outside: 


The stream which flows out from the mouth of this 
cavern issues from two pools at the rear of the cave. 
Several small humanoid figures suddenly emerge 
from behind a massive natural pillar and send a hail of 
small quarrels flying in your direction. 


The guards are a derro leader and six warriors armed with 
repeating crossbows which fire two shots per round and hold 
six bolts in all. Each bolt causes 1 -3 hit points of damage and is 
coated with a toxin causing 2d6 points of additional damage 
(negated if the character saves vs. Poison). The leader has 
12pp and a topaz gem (value - 600gp). The warriors each have 
1-10pp. The derro are wet, having come into the cave through 
the southern pool near which their wet footprints may be seen. 

1 derro leader: AC 5 (studded leather); MV 9"; HD 5; hp 30; 
#AT 1; D 1-4 (hook fauchard); SA Unbalancing; SD Dexterity; 
MR 30%; Int Very; AL CE; Size S; xp 315; THACO 15; MM II. 

6 derro warriors: AC 5 (studded leather); MV 9"; HD 3; hp 18 
each; #AT 2; D 1-3/1-3; SA Poison; SD Dexterity; MR 30%; 
Int Very; AL CE; Size S; xp 199 each; THACO 15; MM II. 

The cavern is natural, and is about 25 feet high near its centre. 
Leading from the pool at the southern end to a similar pool in 
the inner cave (D4) is a short, flooded tunnel. Adventurers, 
even those wearing armour, will have'no difficulty negotiating 
this tunnel since it is only 10 feet long and there are no 
obstructions. The bottoms of the pools slope gently down 
towards the tunnel, and have maximum depths of about 8 feet. 


D4. Inner Cave 

This natural cavern is now linked to the derro temple (D5) by a 
low, narrow tunnel. The derro are using it as a dump for the 
spoil from their digging (see D5 and D6): 


You have emerged from the flooded tunnel into a pool 
at one end of a natural cavern. You can see a rough- 
hewn tunnel, half way up the left-hand wall. Under 
neath it is a mound of soil and rocks. 

















". ...youwillnotmistakeit... a blackrock seared by great heat... 
dull and seeming fy worthless.... only the fallen star can help us.... 
I implore you, do not return without it..." 



D5. Temple 

Ordered on by the derro, the few surviving human slaves are 
attempting to dig a way through the collapsed part of the lair: 

? .. i 

The walls of this room are offensive to your eyes, 
being painted with broad, jagged, black and white 
lines. At the far end of the room is a group of short, 
pale humanoids armed with spears and other 
weapons. Beyond them, some gaunt human slaves 
are clearing rubble from a blocked passage. 


The humanoids guarding the slaves are a derro leader and six 
derro warriors. They will attack the party on sight. If reduced to 
less than half theiroriginal number, however, they will attempt 
to retreat towards the students and other derro in the slave 
pens (see area D7). 

1 derro leader: AC 4 (scaled leather); MV 9"; HD 7; hp 37; 
#AT 1; D 1-4 (hookfauchard); SA Unbalancing; SD Dexterity; 
MR 30%; Int Very; AL CE; Size S; xp 497; THACO 13; MM II. 

6 derro warriors: AC 3 (scaled leather and buckler); MV 9"; 
HD 3; hp 18 each; #AT 2; D 1-4 (buckler) and 2-7 (pick) or 1-6 
(spear); SA Nil; SD Dexterity; MR 30%; Int Very; AL CE; Size S; 
xp 144 each; THACO 16; MM II. 

The leader has a decorative dagger with a silver blade and 
ivory handle (value - 250gp). He also has 16pp in a belt pouch. 
Each of the warriors has 1-10pp. 

In all, there are four human slaves, two men and two women. 
They are shackled and their clothes are ragged and dirty. They 
have been driven to insanity by the cruel treatment they have 
received at the hands of the derro, and will not be able to help 
the party. 

4 human slaves: AC 10; MV 6"; F0; hp 1 (3) each; #AT nil; D Nil; 
SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Low; AL NG; Size M; xp 6 each; 
THACO N/A. 

At the western end of the room are the fragments of a shattered 
statue, made of black marble. It was originally an idol of the 
derro, but toppled and smashed when the shooting-star 
landed. The fragments of the statue are worthless and its 
original form cannot be determined from them. 


D6. Abandoned Digging 

Digging here was abandoned when the debris collapsed, 
killing several slaves: 

--- 

A short distance away, the corridor is completely 
blocked by fallen masonry. Partially buried under the 
rocks are a number of callously mutilated human 
corpses. 


There are eight corpses in all, four of them are completely 
buried by the rock-fall. The exposed bodies are very badly 
mutilated since the derro have been using them as food since 
their other supplies were cut off. 


D7. Slave Pens 

The student derro and a few warriors are here, examining the 
shooting-star. The derro from room D5 will attempt to retreat 
here if the fight with the party goes badly (in which case the DM 
should amend the following description accordingly): 

/ 

Several of the short humanoids are clustered around 
an open chest in the centre of this stark room, 
apparently examining its contents. When they see 
you, the lid of the chest is slammed shut, an order is 
shouted and they ready themselves to attack. 


The occupants of the room are two derro students and four 
warriors. The first student has a full-size long sword +1, a small 
shield +1, and a pair of gold armbands (value - 500gp the pair). 
His memorised spell is charm person. The second student has 
a potion of diminution (a transparent, green, salty liquid - two 
doses) in a wine skin hanging from his belt. His memorised 
spells are anti-magic shell and shadow magic (magic missile: 
six missiles to be fired at random targets, causing d4+1 hit 
points of damage each; 2 hit points if the character saves vs. 
Spells). 

2 derro students: AC 2 (scaled leather and shield +1) and 4 
(scaled leather) respectively; MV 9"; HD 4; hp 24 each; #AT 1; 
D 2-9 (longsword +1) and 1-6 (spear) respectively; SA Spell 
casting; SD Dexterity; MR 30%; Int Very; AL CE; Size S; xp 311 
each; THACO 15; MM II. 

4 warriors: AC 4 (scaled leather); MV 9"; HD 3; hp 18 each; 
#AT 1; D 2-7 (pick) or 1-6 (spear); SA Nil; SD Dexterity; 
MR 30%; Int Very; AL CE; Size S; xp 144 each; THACO 16; 
MM II. 

The warriors have 1-10pp each. In addition, one of them has 
what appears to be a glass bottle stopper (apparent value - 
Igp). It is, in fact, rock crystal and is worth 50gp. 

The walls of the room are plain and rough-hewn. It once held 
dozens of slaves, and there are 50 rings fixed to the walls 
through which the chains were fixed. The derro students have 
taken over the room as somewhere to study the shooting-star 
away from the noise of digging. 

The chest is of heavy iron construction, it is not locked. The 
catch is very stiff, however, and there is a 50% chance that the 
chest will appear to be locked. If a character makes a 
successful pick locks attempt, it will become obvious that the 
chest is unlocked. Otherwise, the character will succeed only 
in locking it with an apparently satisfying click! A subsequent 
successful roll will be required in order to open the chest, 
failing which it must be smashed open to reach the contents. 
This will set off an explosive trap, causing 2d8 hit points of 
damage (halved if the character saves vs. Breath) to all within 
10 feet. The only key to the chest is on a chain around the neck 
of the coffer corpse in the chiefs room (D8). 

The chest contains the shooting-star laid reverently on a rich 
red cloak. The shooting-star is roughly spherical, about the 
size of a small grape fruit and weighs about 10 pounds (lOOgp 
equivalent). It is glass-like but opaque, black, with a burnt 
appearance. It is not magical but is extremely resilient. 
Physical or magical damage amounting to less than 60 hit 

THE DERRO LAIR (encounter areas D5-7) 13 






....the wads are closing in.... the ceiling Jails, and just out of 
sight... a nameless fear animates the dark.... 



points in any one round will not harm it at all. Between 60 and 
200 hit points in a round would remove a small chip, while over 
200 hit points in one round would shatter it. It is of no great 
value to the adventurers, except as a means of obtaining the 
set of books from the the kagu-svirfnebli (see FORGE OF THE 
KAGU-SVIRFNEBLI - page 27), and the party will not be able 
to sell it for more than a few gold pieces. 


D8. Chief's Room 

This was the private room of the derro chief. Unknown to the 
surviving derro, the coffer corpses of the chief and his 
lieutenants, who were killed by the calamity, have been slowly 
digging their way out through the rubble since then: 


Each of the derro corpses has 1-6pp. In addition, the party may 
find a silver belt buckle (value - lOOgp) and a pendant in the 
form of a ram's head (gold with jet, value - 550gp). 

A pair of feet protruding from under the rock-fall are shod in 
unusually fine leather boots. If the party digs the body out (which 
will take 2 rounds), they will find the corpse of the derro savant. 
His right hand still grips a wand, which was shielded from the 
rock-fall by his body, and the right finger of his left hand bears a 
plain gold band (apparent value - 50gp). The wand is a wand of 
metal and mineral detection (45 charges, the command word 
(falaz) is inscribed on it), and the ring is a ring of spell storing, 
capable of holding magic missile and sleep. It is currently 
charged with both spells cast by a 5th-level magic-user. 


A scene of devastation greets you. The walls and 
ceiling have mostly collapsed, and the furniture has 
been smashed by falling rock. Coming from behind 
the fallen masonry which blocks the far end of the 
room is a strange, persistent scratching sound. 


Trapped in a small pocket within the masonry are three coffer 
corpses. These are the bodies of the chief and his lieutenants 
who were killed when the shooting-star struck. In their 
cramped situation, they can only dig slowly and will take a 
further 10 hours to free themselves. The adventurers, however, 
will be able to dislodge the masonry much more quickly (8 
man-hours). Once free, the coffer corpses will attack any 
creatures they see. They are wearing the tattered remains of 
scaled leather armour (now useless). The chief has large gold 
studs set into the leather of his armour (total value - 500gp) and 
a ruby pendant on a chain around his neck (value - 900gp). 
Also on the chain is the key to the chest in the slave pens (D7). 
The lieutenants' corpses have smaller gold studs on their 
armour (value - 120gp each suit). 

3 coffer corpses: AC 8; MV 6"; HD 2; hp 14 each; #AT 1; D 1-6 
(bare hands); SA Nil; SD Need magical weapons to hit; MR Std; 
Int Low; AL CE; Size S; xp 64 each; THACO 16; FF. 


D9. Ruins of the Great Hall 

The only way into this room is by tunnelling through from the 
temple (D5). Most of the derro tribe and their slaves were killed 
here when the roof collapsed: 

s " ¦ ¦ ' . . . 

When you break through the debris, you find yourself 
in an open space bounded by great piles of fallen 
masonry. The air is thick with the smell of death and 
the floor is littered with the corpses of shackled 
humans and small, armoured humanoids. Judging 
from the limbs protruding from the rock-fall there are 
more bodies buried beneath the rock. 

s_-- 

There are 15 derro corpses and 12 bodies of human slaves 
lying on the floor. Buried beneath the fallen rock are a further 
40 derro and 25 humans. This fallen masonry will be 
dangerous to move (see DAMAGE TO THE LAIR - page 11). 
Also in the room are the shattered remains of ornate furniture. 


D10. Trapped Lamia 

A lamia, formerly an ally of the derro, was trapped in this room 
by a rock-fall when the shooting-star struck: 


Attempting to hide behind a pile of quilted cushions is 
a dirty and emaciated creature. Her torso, arms and 
head would resemble those of an attractive woman 
were they not so thin and grimy, but below this her 
body is that of a four-legged beast. 

s_---- 

The creature is a lamia. She will hear the sounds of the 
adventurers's digging and will be prepared when they break 
through. Her first reaction will be to cast an illusion (with 
appropriate sounds) of masonry falling from the roof onto the 
heads of the adventurers. Those characters who fail to 
disbelieve the illusion will suffer 1-10 hit points of damage. 
Next round, she will move forward to attack, casting spells 
where possible. Her personal treasure consists of an ornate 
gold necklace with small pearls (value - 750gp) and a dagger 
+1. Although the lamia was, in theory, an ally of the derro, they 
were always fearful of her and were not at all dismayed to find 
that she had been trapped. 

1 lamia: AC 3; MV 24"; HD 9; hp 29 (42); #AT 1; D 2-5 (dagger 
+1); SA Spell use: charm person, mirror image, suggestion and 
Illusion (as wand), touch drains 1 point of wisdom; SD Nil; 
MR Std; Int High; AL CE; Size M; xp 2048; THACO 12; MM. 

The undamaged walls of the room are painted pale green. In 
addition to the cushions, the room contains a small table 
against the northern wall which bears a crystal decanter of 
poisoned wine (save at +2) and a gold goblet (value - 500gp) 
encrusted with dry blood. Immersed in the wine is a small key 
which opens a silver casket (value - lOOgp) which is hidden 
beneath the cushions. The casket is locked but not trapped 
and contains four red garnets (value - 200gp each). 


Dll. Eastern Tunnel 

This tunnel leads to a large derro stronghold under the 
mountains. If, by some means, the party reaches this tunnel, 
the DM may wish to design and populate the stronghold as an 
additional adventure. Such an adventure, involving large 
numbers of derro, would probably be beyond the capabilities 
of the characters in this module. 


14 THE DERRO LAIR (encounter areas D8-11) 









THERNO PASS 

(encounter areas ¥1-4, Map 4) 


Since the establishment of the derro outpost in the southern 
part of the pass, the local creatures and human inhabitants 
have suffered cruelly. In a bid to protect themselves, a band of 
human hunters have managed to overcome the natural 
suspicion of a family of giant beavers and have established a 
pact for their mutual protection. 

The beavers have constructed a dam (PI) across the pass near 
the hunters' settlement and a lake has built up behind it. 
Although fairly intelligent, the beavers' experiences at the 
hands of the derro have made them unusually aggressive. 
They see all humanoids from the southern part of the pass as 
enemies and will not pause to distinguish between the 
adventurers and derro before attacking. 

The hunters regard their pact with the beavers as a solemn vow 
and, if their allies are under attack, will not hesitate to aid them. 
If the beavers have not been harmed, the hunters may be easily 
won over at first by the adventurers. The hunters will be very 
wary, however, and unless the party ensures their friendship 
by suitable magical means, events will probably cause them to 
move against the party even if good relations have been 
established (see P4). 


ENCOUNTER AREAS 

PI. Beaver Dam 

The beavers' dam completely blocks the pass. If the 
adventurers attack the beavers, damage the dam or climb to 
the top of it, the creatures will attack: 


You come to a barrier of mud, logs and branches, 
twice the height of a man, which blocks the pass 
ahead. The track which you have followed through 
the pass disappears under the barrier and the stream 
which accompanied it is fed by water which seeps 
through the blockage. 

The head of a large animal appears above the barrier 
for a moment then disappears with a splash. 

i - 

There are three adult giant beavers guarding the dam. When 
they see the party, they will slap their tails on the water to 
attract the attention of the other two adults in the beavers' 
lodge (P3) who will arrive on the scene in 2 rounds. This noise 
will also attract the hunters in their camp who will row across to 
the dam in their canoes (see P2) and join them after 5 rounds. 

3 adult giant beavers: AC 6; MV 6"//12"; HD 4; hp 24 each; 
#AT 1; D 4-16; SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Low; AL N; Size M 
(6' long); xp 156 each; THACO 15; MM. 

The dam is a substantial structure. The wood included in it is 
wet and will not burn. The dam will be breached if it sustains 20 
or more points of structural damage, and should be treated as 
'wood protected by wet hides' for the purposes of determining 
the effect of physical or magical attacks (see DMG pi 09 - Siege 
Attack Values table). The effect of breaching the dam will be 


spectacular: all creatures on or in the lake, on the dam, or on 
the valley floor below the dam (within 500 feet), will be swept 
away by the deluge of water. They will sustain 2d8 hit points of 
damage due to battering, plus dIO hit points of drowning 
damage, and will be deposited d6x100 feet down the valley 
from the dam. In addition, creatures on the valley floor below 
the dam (and within 100 feet) must save vs. Breath or be killed 
by the impact of the water-borne debris. The beaver lodge will 
not be washed away and the beavers will take only half the 
battering damage and no drowning damage. 


P2. Beavers' Lake 

When the adventurers reach the top of the dam, they will be 
able to see the lake beyond. The description assumes that the 
male hunters have been alerted and are heading towards the 
dam. If not, the DM should amend the description accordingly: 


Beyond the dam an elongated, U-shaped lake has 
formed which extends to either side of a mountain 
spur dividing two branches of the valley. Several men 
in five canoes are paddling furiously towards you 
from a cluster of huts on the lower slopes of the spur. 

s___ 

There are 10 men in all, a leader and nine hunters, two in each 
canoe. If possible, they will attack by firing arrows from the 
craft, otherwise they will engage in hand-to-hand combat. 

1 leader: AC 8; MV 12"; F3; hp 18; #AT 2 or 1; D 1 -6 (short bow) 
or 1-8 (long sword); SA +1 to hit with bow; SD Nil; MR Std; 
Int High; AL LN; Size M; xp 132; THACO 18. 

9 hunters: AC 8; MV 12"; FI; hp6each; #AT2 or 1; D 1-6 (short 
bow) or 1-6 (short sword); SA +1 to hit with bow; SD Nil; 
MR Std; Int Ave; AL LN; Size M; xp 32 each; THACO 20. 

The hunters are wearing simple clothes of thick leather. The 
leader has 12 freshwater pearls (value - lOgp each) in a pouch 
hanging around his neck. The other men each have 1-4gp 
worth of simple personal adornments (bone or tooth neck 
laces, beads and ornamental stone pendants). 

The hunters speak common, and will respond favourably to 
requests by the party for a parley so long as no beaver has been 
killed and they themselves have not been attacked. They will 
be particularly impressed if the party tells them that it has 
fought with the derro. The hunters can signal to the beavers to 
stop fighting by giving four slaps on the water with a paddle. If 
pacified, the hunters will transport the party over the lake in 
their canoes and hurry them past their camp to the track 
beyond. They are nervous, however, and will attack the party at 
the least provocation. Events will probably cause them to 
attack without reason (see P4). 


P3. Beavers' Lodge 

From the outside, the nest has the appearance of a mound of 
densely-woven branches and twigs about 30 feet across. The 
single chamber inside the nest is above water-level. It is 

THERNO PASS (encounter areas PI-3) 15 






....the sun shines on green dates in the pass where hunters need 
never go hungry.... but not for me is the (ife of freedom.... the 
brotherhood beckons.... 



roughly circular, 20 feet across and 6 feet high, and is reached 
by an underwater tunnel. The lodge walls should be treated in 
a similar way to the dam if attempts are made to damage them. 
Its walls will yield to 5 points of structural damage. 

In the lodge are two adult giant beavers who will aid those on 
the dam (PI) if the alarm is raised, and five non-combatant 
young. Lying among a pile offish bones on one side of the nest 
is a ring made of bone (apparent value - lOgp) which will only 
be found if the pile is searched. It is actually a ring of warmth. 

2 adult giant beavers: AC 6; MV 6"//12"; HD 4; hp 22 each; 
#AT 1; D 4-16; SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Low; AL N; Size M 
(6' long); xp 148 each; THACO 15; MM. 

5 young beavers: AC 6; MV 6"//12"; HD 2; hp 10 each; #AT Nil; 
D Nil; SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Low; AL N; Size S; xp 0; 
THACO N/A; MM. 


P4. Hunters' Camp 

If the adventurers have avoided fighting the hunters, they will 
be lead hurriedly past the camp. The hunters are very nervous: 


Five crude huts made from rock, mud and sticks are 
clustered together on the spur of land between the 
branches of the lake. Suspicious eyes regard you 
from the open doorways. Between the huts, animal 
skins are stretched on the ground or on frames. 

^ ¦-' 


There are seven women and 15 children, all wearing clothes of 
thick leather. They will fight fiercely in self defence if cornered 
but not otherwise. They have no treasure. 

7 women: AC 8; MV 12"; F0; hp 4 each; #AT 1; D 1-4 (dagger); 
SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Ave; AL LN; Size M; xp 14 each; 
THACO 20* 

15children: AC 8; MV 12"; F0; hp 2each; #AT 1; D1 -4 (dagger); 
SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Ave; AL LN; Size S; xp 7 each; 
THACO 20*. 

The hunters' apprehension may only be dispelled by magical 
means (e.g. a friends or charm person spell) although non- 
affected hunters would consider spell casting an act of 
aggression, if they saw it, and would attack. Other minor 
provocations, for example the drawing of weapons, would also 
cause the hunters to attack. 

While the party is passing through the camp, the silence will be 
broken by a scream coming from one of the huts (the result of a 
child accidentally touching a hot hearthstone). Unless he has 
been influenced by some magical means (see above) the 
leader will shout an order. The hunters will attempt to seize the 
adventurers rather than attack, but if they refrain from 
retaliating for 1 round, the leader's mistake will be realised and 
no harm will be done. If the adventurers fight back with 
weapons or magic, the hunters will attack and will call for help. 

The huts contain only that which the hunters can carry with 
them (pots, pans etc.). The only valuable items in the camp are 
animal skins. There are 20 wolf pelts (value - 8gp each), five 
black bear (value - 50gp each), 200 normal beaver (value - 2gp 
each) and 20 fox (value - 3gp each) - a total value of 870gp. 


16 THERNO PASS (encounter areas P3-4) 














TOWER OF THE HEAVENS 

(encounter areas <11-21: Map 5 - <P[an *1) 


The Tower of the Heavens is renowned as a seat of learning for 
the study of astronomy, and also as a source of astrological 
advice and prophecy for those with the means to pay for it. 

The reputation of the tower sages is founded mostly on the set 
of Books of Prophecy in their possession. Important persons 
are more likely to be mentioned in the Books of Prophecy and 
can thus be answered with some certainty. Less important 
people are given more ambiguous responses, based on 
astrological observations and calculations. 

The party should have little difficulty in getting to the tower 
(see REACHING THE TOWER), but will only be able to enter it 
easily by following the advice of Hadley the ferryman (see 
ENTRY TO THE TOWER and T1). When the party arrives, 
Shalfey, Elder Sage and Keeper of the Books, is besieged in his 
apartments (T18-21) by Piyarz, formerly his pupil (see 
PIYARZ'S COUP). Warned of the situation by Hadley the 
ferryman (see T1), the party must overthrow Piyarz's coup 
(preferably avoiding combat with the other inhabitants - see 
OCCUPANTS OF THE TOWER) and rescue Shalfey (see T19), 
who will ask them to take the shooting-star to the FORGE OF 
THE KAGU-SVIRFNEBLI - page 27. 


REACHING THE TOWER 

The tower should not be difficult for the adventurers to find, 
since its position will be known to them from the memories 
gleaned from the memory web (see page 4) and the building is 
clearly visible from the southern bank of the river. The ferry 
(T1) which takes visitors to the tower plies from the northern 
bank, however, and since the adventurers will approach the 
tower from the south, they will need to cross the river. 

The river is about 300 yards wide and fast-flowing for a 
distance of about 2 miles in either direction from the tower. 
Furthermore, the tower stands at a point where another river 
joins the Keldir. As a result, the waters around the islets are 
swirling and treacherous. Only Hadley the ferryman (T1) 
knows the waters well enough to guide his boats safely 
between the bank and the smaller island. Noone else will be 
able to manoeuvre a boat near the islands, but the river is not 
actually very dangerous and the worst effects of the current 
will be to sweep craft down stream away from their intended 
landing place. 

More than 2 miles up- or downstream from the tower, the river 
is wider (about 800 yards), less fast flowing and may be 
crossed easily. Scattered trees grow on both banks and a raft 
may be constructed from these if desired. 


ENTRY TO THE TOWER 

The party will be advised by Hadley the ferryman (T1), to 
pretend to be seeking information from the sages and to wait in 
the hostel (T3) on the smaller island, before being taken to the 
tower for an audience (see VISITORS' AREA - page 19). 

The fortress is well defended, and the party will have difficulty 
entering it without invitation. 


An assault over the bridge would require the party to overcome 
the barbican guards (T2), cross the bridge before the gates to 
the entrance hall (T4) are closed, and overcome the entrance 
hall guards and any others who might be summoned (see 

GARRISON'S QUARTERS - page 20). 

To enter the tower through one of the watchtowers (T12), the 
adventurers would have to negotiate the river, climb the walls 
and then overcome the guards both in the tower and in the 
rooms below. 


PIYARZ'S COUP 

For'"centuries the power of the sages had come more from the 
ancient Books of Prophecy than from their dubious arts of 
astrology, and the secrets of these books had been passed on 
at the death of each Keeper to his chosen successor. 

The sage Piyarz, however, had grown impatient to assume his 
master's title and when Shalfey's retinue left in search of the 
shooting-star he saw his chance to gain it by force. 
Unfortunately for him, Shalfey managed to seal himself in his 
apartment (rooms T18-21). Now, Shalfey threatens to destroy 
the books if any attempt is made to break into his stronghold, 
and Piyarz has decided to starve him out instead. 

Driven by the desire to gain the status of Keeper of the Books, 
Piyarz announced that Shalfey was dead and has assumed the 
title. He does not know that Shalfey sent a brief message (via a 
medallion of thought projection) to Hadley the ferryman after 
retreating into his tower. 


OCCUPANTS OF THE TOWER 

When the party arrives, the occupants of the tower are divided 
into five groups. The description of the tower is divided into 
sections which correspond, in general terms, to the ranges of 
movement of these groups: 

1. Shalfey: the legitimate holder of the titles Elder Sage and 
Keeper of the Books. Although Piyarz (Shalfey's pupil) has 
claimed these titles, Shalfey is the true master of the tower 
but is confined to his apartments (T18-21). 

2. Piyarz, Lurg, Porro and Clpolla: these sages were Shalfey's 
pupils until Piyarz involved them in his attempt to seize 
power. They are attended by monks who are sworn to 
defend them and obey their every order. There are also 
several scribes, and some non-human creatures. 

3. The gnome garrison: a group of mercenaries paid to serve 
the Elder Sage. They believe that Shalfey is dead and obey 
Piyarz. 

4. The hostel staff: these simple folk run the hostel on the 
smaller island. They also believe that Shalfey is dead. 

5. Hadley: a monk. He is the ferryman and confidant of 
Shalfey. He knows that the Elder Sage still lives and will ask 
the party for aid. 


TOWER OF THE HEAVENS 17 





"Remember it wetL.. 'Fair is the day ???? but fearer the 
jewels of evening/ " 


Actions and Movements of the Inhabitants 

The positions and actions described for the inhabitants of the 
tower assume that any attack by the party has not raised the 
alarm. This will normally be the case if the adventurers follow 
Hadley's advice, but if the alarm is raised, the sages, scribes 
and monks (not Hadley) will congregate in the scholars' hall 
(T16) leaving the garrison to deal with any intruders. Unless 
invited, the guards will not enter the sages' quarters (T13-17). 
Note that, while he lacks the marks of office (see SAGES' 
CHAMBERS - page 21), Piyarz will not call the garrison. 


FERRY 

T1. Hadley the Ferryman 

Hadley's ferry is the only easy means of access to the tower. 
Hadley will also provide the adventurers with useful inform 
ation if they respond correctly to his password: 


On the northern bank of the river, close to the smaller 
of the two islands, is a simple hut of wattle and daub 
with a thatched roof. Tied up at a jetty below the hut is 
a small boat. As you approach, a young man in a green 
tunic emerges from the hut and greets you with the 
words: 'Fair is the day.' 

- * 


The young man is Hadley the ferryman: 

HADLEY - MONK, LEVEL 2, HUMAN, MALE 

AC 9; MV 16"; Mk2; hp 9; #AT 1; D 1-4 (open hand) or 2-7 
(staff); SA/SD As standard for class and abilities; MR Std; 
AL LN; S 15, I 12, W15, D 17, C 15, Ch 12; xp 62; THACO 20. 
Clothing - green cloak with large hood over short green tunic, 
chain belt, barefoot. 

Weapons - iron-shod staff. 

Personal treasure - small mithral star on a silver chain (value - 
250gp), Quaal's feather token (anchor), thief's tools. 

Hadley's hut is very simple. It consists of one room which 
contains a bed with a straw mattress, a table, a stool, and a 
store of humble provisions. Beside the hut is a stable where 
Hadley tends visitors' horses. 

His boat will carry 10 passengers and he will convey the party 
safely across to the hostel (T3) without charge. He will greet 
the adventurers with the first part of Shalfey's password ('Fair 
is the day') and is hoping for the reply'...but fairer the jewels of 
evening'. The party will have learnt this expression from the 
memory web (see DEATH ON THE MOORS - page 4). If the 
party does not make the proper response at once, Hadley will 
offer*(c) take them to the island and will slip the opening phrase 
into his conversation at least three times during the crossing. It 
is essential that the party gains Hadley's trust. If necessary, the 
DM should jog the players' memory with regard to the 
password. When the adventurers respond correctly to the 
password, Hadley will risk confiding in them even though he 
has no idea who they are. If they are not already aboard, he will 
invite the characters into his boat and start rowing towards the 
hostel. On the way he will warn them about his fears for 
Shalfey's safety and ask them for help. The DM may either read 
the following speech aloud to the players, or paraphrase it: 

18 TO WER OF THE HE A VENS (encounter areas T1 -2) 


My name is Hadley, monk of the Order of the Night 
Sky, whose members have ever been sworn to the 
service of the sages of the Tower of the Heavens. 

They say that Shalfey, my master and the greatest of 
the sages, is dead and that Piyarz, who was his pupil is 
now Keeper of the Books. But I know this to be untrue 
and, since you somehow know the password, I will 
risk all and beg aid from you. 

Since first I came to the tower, I have walked by the 
river each evening and Shalfey has spoken into my 
mind to instruct me and to gain news of visitors. That 
evening, after my master had been proclaimed dead, I 
walked once more by the river in memory of him. 
Then, briefly, I felt his thoughts touch mine. They 
were filled with fear and he placed in my mind only the 
password and response which we have just ex 
changed. Since then, no further messages have come. 

Piyarz is evil, and has long sought Shalfey's title. He 
has bent the minds of the lesser sages while my fellow 
monks, sworn to their individual masters, could do 
nothing but obey. I fear foul play, for the monks 
closest to my master had left the tower on a secret 
mission only the day before his supposed death, 
leaving him defenceless. 

Whether Shalfey is alive and a prisoner, or dead as 
Piyarz claims, the usurper and his minions must be 
destroyed. If you will undertake this task, you should 
pose as travellers seeking answers from the sages. 
Wait in the hostel until called to the main island. Then, 
when you are brought to the hall of questions, burst 
through the curtain behind which the sages hide and 
run them to ground. My brother monks will oppose 
you even until death in honour of their vow and, if 
need be, you must kill them. Spare only Shalfey who 

wears the white robe.no more now.... we draw near 

to the island. 


Moments later, the boat will arive at the jetty below the 
barbican (T2) and will be hailed by the guards. 

Hadley will not accompany the party lest his absence from his 
post arouses Piyarz's suspicion. Moreover, he is unwilling to 
fight against his fellow monks. 


SMALLER ISLAND (T2-3) 

T2. Barbican 

The barbican is manned at all times. It overlooks the jetty on 
the small island and guards access to the bridge between it and 
the tower. The guards will hail the ferry as it nears the island: 


Overlooking the steps which lead up from the jetty on 
the smaller island is a drab, grey, stone building with 
tall, narrow windows. A gnome wearing armour 
appears at one of the windows and calls out to you. 






...the dotty rituaC... waiting behind the curtain.... endless 
questions.... at fast, payment is received^ amt we are released.... 



The occupants of the barbican guard-room are six gnomes 
(see GARRISON'S QUARTERS - page 20), each of whom has 
1-6gp. The guards watch over the arrivals and departures of 
visitors and inform the sages of these. The adventurers will be 
told to wait in the hostel until called for by the sages. 

The guard-room contains only a table, stools, a locker 
(containing 120 arrows), a small brazier and a bag of coal. 

6 gnomes: AC 4 (chainmail and shield); MV 6"; FI; hp 7 each; 
#AT 1 or 2; D 1-6 (short sword) or 1-6 (short bow); SA nil; 
SD nil; MR Save as F5; Int Ave; AL LN; Size S; xp 34 each; 
THACO 20; MM. 


T3. Hostel 

If the party follows Hadley's advice, they will stay in the hostel 
until called for by the sages. The visitors' hostel occupies most 
of the space on the small island to the east of the main tower. It 
comprises several conjoining, single-storey units arranged 
around a courtyard. These buidings are of stone and have slate 
roofs. 

The hostel is run by a middle-aged male warden, Auberge. He 
oversees four young, male, human scullions who cook, clean 
and carry. All four wear leather aprons over rough shirts and 
breeches. Auberge has a ring of protection +1 and 105gp in his 
belt pouch (mixed coins). The scullions each have 1-4gp. 

The hostel staff never go over to the main tower and take little 
interest in anything but the care of their guests. They know 
nothing of the attempted coup, but believe that Shalfey died of 
natural causes, and regard Piyarz as the legitimate Keeper of 
the Books. 

Auberge: AC 9; MV 12"; F2; hp 15; #AT 1; D 1-4 (dagger), 
SA/SD As standard for class; MR Std; Int Ave; AL NG; Size M; 
xp 80; THACO 20. " _ " 

4 scullions: AC 10; MV 12"; F0; hp 3 each; #AT 1; D 1-4 
(dagger); SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Low; AL NG; Size M; xp 13 
each; THACO 20*. 

The various sections of the hostel are described briefly below. 
In the interests of brevity, no boxed sections are given and the 
descriptions of the room contents are not exhaustive. If 
necessary, the DM should expand upon the details given 
remembering that the hostel is, in general, simple yet 
comfortable and contains no magical items or objects of great 
value. 


3a. Dining Room 

Visitors to the tower eat here. There are two large tables, four 
long benches, half a dozen chairs and a large dresser 
containing the tableware. At night, Auberge sleeps here and 
bars the door to the courtyard on the inside. 


3b. Kitchen 

All cooking is done at a cast-iron range in the fire-place. There 
are some stools, a table and kitchen utensils. The scullions 
sleep here. A trap door leads down to the cellar (3c). 



3c. Cellar 

The cellar below the kitchen is reached by a trap door and 
ladder. Here are stored food-stuffs, wine, beer, tools, and fuel. 


3d-g. Visitors' Rooms 

Each room contains a table, four stools and four beds. The 
doors have no locks. Lodging costs Igp per person per night. 
Meals and drinks are extra (at standard rates - see PHB p36). 


MAIN TOWER 

The outside walls of the Tower of the Heavens are very smooth 
and slightly slippery (see DMG pi 9). All rooms are 15 feet high 
and all floors/ceilings are 5 feet thick. The doors are of thick 
oak, bound with iron and decorated with bronze panels. 


VISITORS' AREA (T4-6) 

The descriptions of areas T4 and T5 assume that the 
adventurers are entering the tower in response to a summons 
by the sages. If this is not the case, the DM should adjust the 
details accordingly. If they wait in the hostel, the adventurers 
will be summoned by the 12 guards from room T4 at noon on 
the day after their arrival. They will be led across the bridge, 
through the entrance chamber (T4) and into the questioners' 
hall (T5). The doors will be closed, and the ceremony will 
begin. If attacked by the party, the guards will attempt to alert 
the rest of the garrison by retreating/fleeing towards room T7. 


T4. Entrance Chamber 

This room is manned at all times, except when the guards go to 
collect visitors and escort them to the questioners' hall (T5): 


This fine room has no furniture. Its stone-flagged 
floor and the handles of the brass-panelled doors are 
very worn as if by centuries of use. 

_ > 

--- 

The guards each have 1-6gp in a belt pouch. 

12 gnome guards: AC 4 (chain mail and shield); MV 6"; FI; hp 7 
each; #AT 1 or 2; D1-6 (short sword) or 1-6 (short bow); SA ml; 
SD nil; MR Save as F5; Int Ave; AL LN; Size S; xp 34 each; 
THACO 20; MM. 


T5. Questioners' Hall 

It is here that visitors are brought by the guards (from room T4) 
so their questions may be answered by the sages: 


You are led into a shadowy, sombre room lit by the 
dancing flames of four braziers. Dusty red curtains 
line the walls; the ceiling is blackened and the marble 
floor has been worn by the soles of countless feet. 


TO WER OF THE HE A VENS (encounter areas T3-5) 19 




....guards everywhere... there is no better defended tower.... our 
master wiCC be in safe hands.... 



The gnome guards (from T4) remain in the hall, discretely 
lined up against the side walls. The ceremony is conducted by 
the minor sage Lurg who is hiding behind the curtain. He will 
have cast a non-detection spell upon himself before the 
ceremony, and is protected by two monks. If attacked, Lurg, 
the monks and the guards will fight to the death. 

LURG - SAGE, HUMAN, MALE: 

AC 10; MV 12"; Sage; hp 16; #AT Nil; D Nil; SA Spells; SD Nil; 
MR Std; AL LN; S 12, I 16, W 14, D 10, C 12, Ch 9; xp 113; 
THACO N/A. 

Clothing - red, short-sleeved tunic and robe; belt (see 
below). 

Spells memorised - (cast as if level 5 illusionist) colour spray, 
mirror image. 

Personal treasure - gold chain belt (value - 600gp). 

Major field of knowledge - supernatural and unusual (divin 
ation, astrology and numerology). 

Minor field of knowledge - physical universe. 

2 monks: AC 7; MV 19"; Mk5; hp 17 each; #AT 5/4; D 2-7 (open 
hand); SA/SD As standard for class; MR Std; Int Ave; AL LN; 
Size M; xp 252 each; THACO 18. 

If allowed to run its course, the ceremony is relatively simple 
and business-like. Lurg will ask the visitors for their question 
and, once it is asked, will demand payment of 3000gp no 
matter what the question is. He will instruct the party to place 
their offering on the floor from which it will be collected and 
taken behind the curtain by a permanent unseen servant, 
which was cast long ago and is currently under Lurg's control. 

Lurg has no access to the Books of Prophecy and will simply 
remain silent behind the curtain for 3 turns while he concocts a 
meaningless but impressive answer. Once this has been given, 
the guards will escort the adventurers back to the ferry and 
instruct them to leave, thus concluding the transaction. 

The walls behind the curtains are of plain, dressed stone. The 
braziers are made of bronze. They are 3 feet high and worth 
250gp each. 


T6. Stone Guardian's Door 

This entrance to the sages' quarters is blocked by a heavy 
stone door defended by a stone guardian. The boxed section 
describes the door as seen from the northern side: 


The passage is blocked by a heavy-looking stone 
door, bearing a deeply carved pattern of stars 
arranged around a central human figure. 


The central figure is actually a stone guardian which fits 
snugly into a specially made recess on the northern side of the 
door. The door may be opened safely from the southern side 
but, once it is closed, the stone guardian will attack anybody 
who opens the door from the north (or who damages either it 
or the door). The stone guardian has no treasure. 

1 stone guardian: AC 2; MV 10"; HD 4+4; hp 27; #AT 2; 
D 2-9/2-9; SA Nil; SD Special; MR Special; Int Non; AL N; 
Size L; xp 766; THACO 15; MMII. 

20 TOWER OF THE HE A VENS (encounter areas T6-8) 



The stone guardian has been fashioned into the semblance of 
a robed human and is the same colour and texture as the door. 
Unless it is attacking, the chance of noticing it is the same as 
for a secret door. 


GARRISON S QUARTERS (T7-12) 

The gnomes have developed a deep-felt awe of the sages and 
are completely loyal to the Elder Sage. They will only enter the 
sages'quarters (T13-17) if summoned by him. Note that, while 
Shalfey lives, the symbols on Piyarz's arms (see SAGES' 
CHAMBERS - page 21) are unchanged and the guards would 
recognise him at once as a usurper if they saw him. He will not, 
therefore, call on the guards for aid. The guards know nothing 
of Piyarz's deception and obey all orders relayed to them from 
him. If they are convinced that Shalfey is alive, they will be so 
outraged by Piyarz's treachery that they will turn against him. 

The gnomes are led by a captain (seeT7). If the alarm is raised 
because of an attack either inside or outside the tower, they 
will respond in an intelligent, co-ordinated manner. 


T7. Mercenaries' Hall 

Just under a third of the gnome mercenaries will be here, 
resting between periods of duty: 


As you open the door, the smell of pipe smoke and the 
noise of raucous conversation greets you. Twenty or 
so armed gnomes are smoking, eating, gambling and 
talking in here. Suddenly the conversation stops, 
orders are shouted and swords are drawn.... 

Si J 

There are 21 gnomes here: the captain, Mainwaring and 20 
guards, all wearing grey robes over their armour. The gnomes 
will attack the party on sight. The noise of battle will awaken 
the gnomes in the barracks (T8), who will arrive in 1-3 rounds. 
Mainwaring has chain mall +2, a gold brooch (value - 300gp), 
the key to his locker (see T8) and 15gp in a belt pouch. The 
guards have only 1-6gp each. 

Captain Mainwaring: AC 2 (chain mail +2 and shield); MV 6"; 
F5; hp 36; #AT 1 or 2; D 1-6 (short sword) or 1-6 (short bow); 
SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Save as F9; Int Very; AL LN; Size S; xp 366; 
THACO 16; MM. 

20 gnome guards: AC 4 (chain mail and shield); MV 6"; FI; hp 7 
each; #AT 1 or 2; D1-6 (short sword) or 1-6 (short bow); SA Nil; 
SD Nil; MR Save as F5; Int Ave; AL LN; Size S; xp 34 each; 
THACO 20. 

Arranged around the room are seven tables, four benches and 
40 stools. On the table are dirty plates, mugs, spoons, dice, 
playing pieces and gambling stakes (24gp in all). 


T8. Barracks 

Under normal circumstances there will be 20 sleeping, off- 
duty gnomes here, but the description assumes that they have 
been woken and joined the combat in T7. If this is not the case, 
the DM should amend it accordingly. 











....one tost good meat 6efbre departure.... fresh bread and fried 
jisfe... the fare wiit be much leaner on the road... 



This barracks room shows signs of a hurried 
departure by its occupants. The sheets and blankets 
of the 20 or so small beds are all thrown back or cast 
acrosss the floor. 


which will be triggered if the door is touched or otherwise moved 
by anyone other than the sages, their monks or the scribes. It will 
cause d4*7 hit points of damage (halved if characters save vs. 
Spells) to all within 5 feet. 


T12. Watch Towers 


If not previously woken, the gnomes will be found sleeping in 
armour with their swords close at hand. The party will 
automatically gain 1-3 segments of surprise while the guards 
awaken. Each gnome has 1-6gp. 

20gnomes: AC4 (chain mail and shield); MV6"; FI; hp7each; 
#AT 1; D 1-6 (short sword); SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Save as F5; 
Int Ave; AL LN; Size S; xp 34 each; THACO 20; MM. 

In the centre of the room is a weapon rack with 30 short bows 
and 20 quivers. There are 25 small beds (the gnomes take turns 
to sleep) around the walls, each with 3 small lockers at its foot. 
A larger, more comfortable bed (the captain's) stands against 
the south-eastern wall. It has a large locker by its foot. 

The lockers contain the personal possessions of the gnomes 
(cloaks, boots, daggers, etc.). None are of any great value. The 
captain's locker is locked (the captain has the key) but not 
trapped. It contains a fine, fur-trimmed robe (value - 50gp), a 
gold chain belt (value-300gp) and a bag containing 900gp (the 
pay-roll money). 


T9. Store 

This is the general food and equipment store forthe tower. It is 
unoccupied: 


You come into a roughly square room. Neatly stacked 
on shelves and racks against the walls are dozens of 
casks, boxes, sacks and bundles. 


The stores contain food, fuel and torches in addition to ropes, 
wood, nails and tools for the maintenance of the building. 


Each of-these turrets is manned at all times by six gnomes who 
are constantly on the watch for intruders, particularly those 
climbing the walls. Their infravision enables them to keep 
watch at night without lights. They have 1-6gp each. 

6 gnome guards: AC 4 (chain mail and shield); MV 6"; F1; hp 7 
each; #AT 1 or 2; D1-6 (short sword) or 1-6 (short bow); SA Nil; 
SD Nil; MR Save as F5; Int Ave; AL LN; Size S; xp 34 each; 
THACO 20; MM. 


SAGES' CHAMBERS (T13-17) 

There are five sages of the Tower of the Heavens: the Elder 
Sage, Shalfey (also known as Keeper of the Books since he 
alone has access to the Books of Prophecy), and four lesser 
sages: the three Pupils - Lurg, Porro and Cipolla (who are only 
learning the arts of prophecy) and the Tutor, Piyarz (who 

teaches the Pupils and is the appointed successor to Shalfey). 

Each sage is characterised by symbols imprinted into the skin 
of his arms. These symbols look like tattoos but are, in fact, 
magical and change with the status of the sage (but not 
otherwise). Thus, Piyarz's arms still bear the marks of a Tutor 
despite his claim to the title Elder. In addition, the robe and 
tunic of each sage is a characteristic colour. Lurg s are red, 
Porro's are blue, Cipolla's are yellow, Piyarz's are black and 
Shalfey's white. 

Certain abilities (e.g. the ability to enter the prismatic sphere in 
the greater library (T19) and the ability to understand the 
Books of Prophecy) are given only to the true Elder Sage. The 
current order of succession is Shalfey, Piyarz, Lurg, Porro and 
Cipolla. If all were to die no-one else could take up the title or 
its benefits. 


T10. Kitchen 

All the cooking for the tower's occupants is done here by 
members of the garrison. The kitchen is currently unoccupied. 


You open the door to reveal a neat kitchen. There is 
nobody here, but a delicious smell is coming from a 
pot of stew simmering gently on the stove. 


There are no items of value here. Since the gnomes never go to 
the sages' chambers without invitation, food for the sages and 
their servants is collected from the kitchens by the scribes. 


An order of monks, the Order of the Night Sky, provides 
members of its brotherhood to guard and serve the sages. The 
Pupils each have two monks, Piyarz has four (including Sion, 
PIYARZ'S SHADOW - page 7) and Shalfey had four, but these 
are now dead (see DEATH ON THE MOORS - page 4). Their 
robes are the same colour as those of their masters, to whom 
they are unquestioningly loyal. Sion, however, has worn grey 
robes since being transformed into a shade. 

The sages are also served by scribes, who wear grey. 

The description of the sages' chambers assume that the sages 
are unaware of the presence of the adventurers and that they 
have entered the chambers through the stone guardian door 
(T6). If not, the DM should amend them accordingly. 


Til. Warded Door 

The door leading to this stairway appears to be the same as any 
other normal door. It is protected, however, by a fire-trap spell 


T13. Monks' Dormitory 

This stark room is used by the monks who guard the lesser 
sages (Piyarz, Lurg, Porro and Cipolla). It is currently empty: 

TO WE Ft OF THE HE A VENS (encounter areas T9-13) 21 







....hard beds and plain walls.... ornamentation is naught but 
distraction.... Us discipline that focuses the mind... 



22 TOWER OF THE HE A VENS (encounter area T14) 



This room is obviously a dormitory, but either it is not 
in use or the occupants are amazingly spartan in their 
tastes, since it contains only 10 wooden beds each 
with only a thin layer of straw as a mattress. 


The monks have no interest in wealth or possessions and the 
room contains no items of interest or value. 


T14. Lesser Library 

This library contains the less important books of the tower and 
is affected by a permanent silence spell. Two of the Pupil 
Sages are here with their monk guardians and some scribes: 


This is a library. The 10 robed figures here are either 
working at tall desks or standing with arms folded. 
When they see you, some rush forward as if to attack 
while the others back away. No sound comes from the 
room and, as you enter, silence encloses you. 


The occupants of the room are four monks, four scribes and 
two Pupil sages: Porro and Cipolla (see below). The monks 
and scribes have no items of interest or value. 

PORRO - SAGE, HUMAN, MALE: 

AC 8; MV 12"; Sage; hp 17; #AT Nil; D Nil; SA Spells; SD Nil; 
MR Std; AL LN; S 8, I 15, W 16, D 16, C 7, Ch 12; xp 116; 
THACO N/A. 

Clothing - blue, short-sleeved tunic and robe; belt (see below). 
Spells memorised - (cast as if level 3 illusionist) light, hypnotic 
pattern. 

Personal treasure - gold chain belt (value - 600gp). 

Major field of knowledge - supernatural and unusual (divin 
ation, astrology and numerology). 

Minor fields of knowledge - physical universe. 

CIPOLLA - SAGE, HUMAN, MALE: 

AC 9; MV 12"; Sage; hp 15; #AT Nil; D Nil; SA Spells; SD Nil; 
MR Std; AL LN; S 13, I 16, W 10, D 15, C 9, Ch 10; xp 110; 
THACO N/A. 

Clothing - yellow, short-sleeved tunic and robe; belt (see 
below). 

Spells memorised - (cast as if level 3 illusionist) colour spray, 
invisibility. 

Personal treasure - gold chain belt (value - 600gp). 

Major field of knowledge - supernatural and unusual (divin 
ation, astrology and numerology). 

Minor fields of knowledge - physical universe. 

4 monks: AC 7; MV 19"; Mk 5; hp 17 each; #AT 5/4; D 2-7 (open 
hand); SA/SD As standard for class; MR Std; Int Ave; AL LN; 
xp 252 each; THACO 18. 

4 scribes: AC 10; MV 12"; F0; hp 3 each; #AT Nil; D Nil; SA Nil; 
SD Nil; MR Std; Int Very; AL LN; xp Nil; THACO N/A. 

When attacked, the scribes will panic (and each will flee in a ran 
domly determined direction), Cipolla will flee towards Piyarz 
(T 1 6), Porro will cast a hypnotic pattern spell and, if threatened, 
follow Cipolla. The monks will fight the party. The room is affected 
by a permanent silence spell (cast at 1 6th level of spell use). This 













































































..Piyarz, never far away- Piyarz, with shifty eyes and 
malicious tongue.... his cursed shadow always at fus side.... 



was intended to help the sages study but it will also restrict spell 
casting and communication between characters during combat. 


The room contains eight tall, wooden desks, each with a high 
stool. Each desk has a drawer containing parchment, ink and 
quills. On shelves against the eastern wall stand 43 books 
which include all the major works on the supernatural, the 
unusual and the physical universe (see DMG p32). 


The room before you is large, lavishly decorated and 
elegantly furnished. The men who fled from the 
library are here and regard you fearfully. There are 
also four dark-robed figures and a raven, who most 
certainly do not share the men's fear of you! 


T15. Pupil Sages' Chambers 


The occupants of the room are Piyarz (see below), his three 
monks, his imp familiar and any sages or scribes who have fled 
here from the library (T14). The monks and imp have no 
treasure. 


Except for the colour schemes and as otherwise detailed 
below, these three rooms are identical. Each is the private 
chamber, currently unoccupied, of one of the Pupil Sages: 


You are somewhat taken aback at first by the brilliant 
colour of the walls in this simple bedroom. The wood 
and upholstery of the furniture are the same colour. 


The rooms have the same colour as the robes of their 
occupants (15a - Lurg, red; 15b - Porro, blue; 15c - Cipolla, 
yellow) and the DM should use a variant of the above 
description in each case. Each contains a comfortable bed 
with sheets and blankets, a desk and a hard chair. 

Each desk has two drawers, side by side. In each case, the 
right-hand drawer contains quills, ink and sheets of study 
notes. The left-hand drawers are all locked and trapped. The 
locks may be picked in the usual way (which will activate the 
trap) or opened (safely) if the correct password is spoken. The 
passwords, traps and contents are detailed below: 

15a, (Lurg's room): password - struve; 

trap - blast of fire (affects all within a 5-foot radius - d4+4 hit 
points of damage - halved if save vs. Spells); 
contents - spel I book (colour spray, detect Illusion, phantasmal 
force, mirror image, detect magic, non-detection, illusory 
script); a bottle containing a potion of longevity (1 dose - black, 
bitter, foaming liquid), and a bag holding 30pp. 

15b, (Porro's room): password - altair; 

trap - blast of cold (affects all within a 5-foot radius - d4+4 hit 
points of damage - halved if save vs. Spells); 
contents - spell book (light, colour spray, change self, 
hypnotic pattern, misdirection); a bag containing 15pp and a 
child-size necklace of emerald beads (value - 800gp). 

15c, (Cipolla's room): password - sol; 

trap - lightning bolt (affects 1 creature within 10 feet, chosen at 
random - 2d6 hit points of damage - halved if save vs. Spells); 
contents - spell book (colour spray, dancing lights, wall of fog, 
invisibility, ventriloquism); a scroll with the illusionist spell 
summon shadow (at 10th level), a bag holding 25pp and a 
small horse carved from coral (value - 500gp). 


PIYARZ - SAGE, HUMAN, MALE: 

AC 7; MV 12"; Sage; hp 25; #AT Nil; D Nil; SA Spells; 
SD Regeneration (see imp); MR 25% (see imp); AL LE; S 10, 

I 17, W 14, D 12, C 11, Ch 9; xp 330; THACO N/A. 

Clothing - short-sleeved black robe and tunic with belt (see 
below). 

Spells memorised (cast as if level 8 magic user) - magic 
missile, mirror Image, tongues, Rary's mnemonic enhancer 
(cast giving him magic missile, sleep, light). 

Major field of knowledge - supernatural and unusual (crypto 
graphy; heraldry, signs and sigils; astrology and numer 
ology; divination). 

Minor fields of knowledge - physical universe and demi- 
human kind. 

Personal treasure - platinum chain belt (value - 1500gp), 

bracers of defence AC7 and a ring of fire resistance. 

3 monks: AC 6; MV 20"; MK 6; hp 20 each; #AT 3/2; D 2-8 (open 
hand); SA/SD As standard for class; MR Std; Int Ave; AL LN; 
xp 385 each; THACO 18. 

1 imp familiar (in raven form): AC 2; MV6"/18"; HD 2+2; hp 11; 
#AT 1; D 1-4; SA Poison, suggestion (once per day); 
SD Regeneration, magical or silver weapons to hit, invisibility; 
MR 25%; Int Ave; AL LE; Size S; xp 308; THACO 16; MM. 

Piyarz will attempt to keep out of melee combat and cast spells 
(starting with mirror image). The monks will fight to the death to 
defend him. The imp will revert from its raven guise to its normal 
form and become invisible when the party enters. Its first attack 
will be a suggestion spell ('surrender') after which it will use its 
tail to defend itself and/or its master. If it is killed, Piyarz will lose 
his regenerative powers, 12 hit points, his magic resistance and 
his Tongues spell. He will also only cast spells as if a 3rd level 
magic user from then on. 

The floor and the ceiling of the room are veined marble. The 
walls are painted with intricate, abstract frescoes based on 
astrological symbols. A massive, polished oak table dominates 
the room, with a large, throne-like chair at its head. Along each 
side are arranged two smaller chairs and nine stools. 

The tables, chairs and stools are finely made but otherwise 
unexceptional. On the table are four candlesticks (value - 
200gp each) and a salt-cellar (value - 300gp) all made of 
wrought gold. 


T16. Scholars' Hall 

Piyarz will be here with his monk guards, his familiar and any 
people who have fled here from the lesser library (T14). If none 
have fled, the description should be amended: 


T17. Plyarz's chamber 

Piyarz has appropriated some of the treasure offered to the 
tower (including magical items which he himself cannot use). 
This treasure is guarded in his chamber by a spectator: 

TOWER OF THE HEAVENS (encounter areas T15-17) 23 





" Master > I am afraid" ¦ "Trust me, and believe" - ''But it moves.... 
I shad fad.... the chasm" - "Havefcdth...." 



-- 

Hovering above a large coffer in the centre of this 
black bedroom is a spherical creature which regards 
you quizzically with its single, large, unblinking eye. 


The creature is a spectator. It will gladly engage the party in 
conversation and will only attack in self-defence or if any 
attempt is made to open the coffer. It has no personal treasure. 

1 spectator: AC 4/7; MV 10"; HD 4+4; hp 24; #AT 1; D 2-5; SA 
Various; SD Various; MR 5% and reflects spells; Int Very; AL 
LN; Size L; xp 566; THACO 15; MMII. 

The room contains a bed, a chair, a desk and a coffer, all black. 
The desk has a drawer containing parchment, quills and ink. 
The chair and bed are unexceptional. The coffer is neither 
locked nor trapped. It contains: 

- Piyarz's spell book (magic missile, sleep, light, find familiar, 
read magic, mirror image, magic mouth, locate objects, 
tongues, Rary's mnemonic enhancer). 

- two bags containing 2650gp and 1050pp respectively. 

- 11 books concerned with the study of demi-human kind. 

- a small casket containing a pair of diamond earrings (value - 
2000gp the pair). 

- a larger casket holding two vials, each containing one dose 
of a potion of extra healing (a milky, tasteless liquid). The 
casket is actually a folding boat. 

- a mace +1. 


The first illusion is visual and makes the bridge invisible 
although it can be felt. Characters attempting to disbelieve this 
illusion may do so if they make a successful saving throw vs. 
Spells, in which case the bridge will become visible. 

The second illusion is tactile. Although the bridge can be seen 
to be stable, anyone attempting to use it will feel that it is 
bucking violently and even breaking up. This illusion cannot 
be disbelieved, and the only way that characters may use the 
bridge safely is to overcome the body's natural responses to its 
apparent motion. To do this, characters attempting to cross 
the bridge must make a roll of 3d6 less than or equal to their 
intelligence or wisdom (whichever is the greater). Otherwise, 
they will literally throw themselves off it, believing that they are 
responding to some imaginary, violent movement of the 
bridge. This roll is made when the character is half-way across. 


T19. Greater Library 

Both doors into the library are wizard locked, but may be 
smashed open. Unless they surprise Shalfey, he will have set 
fire to the Books of Prophecy before the adventurers enter: 

-\ 

There is an old man here wearing white robes, 
standing before a pile of burning books. When he sees 
you, he looks both surprised and relieved at once. 


SHALFEY'S TOWER (T18-21) 

Shalfey is alone in the greater library (T19) and has threatened 
to burn the Books of Prophecy if Piyarz attempts to break in. 
This, and the two rooms which hinder access to the library (the 
bridge of faith -T18, and the labyrinth -T20) have led Piyarz to 
opt for a siege rather than an assault. 


T18. Bridge of Faith 

This room may be crossed safely only by the nimble, the clever 
or the wise: 


The deafening roar of rushing water greets you as you 
open the door which leads onto a narrow ledge. At the 
far end of this long room another ledge leads to a 
similar door but between them is a yawning pit with a 
foaming torrent at its bottom. On each side wall are 
inlaid the words 'I am real - have faith and pass safely'. 


The walls of the room are very smooth, wet and slightly 
slippery (climbing rate 3 feet/round; double chance of falling - 
see DMG p19). Characters falling into the torrent will suffer 
4d6 hit points of damage as they are swept out into the river. 
They must either swim and be deposited on the bank d6x100 
yards downstream, or drown (see DMG p55). Characters may 
avoid falling by using ropes and so on. 

There is actually a solid bridge, about 2 feet wide and without a 
parapet, between the two ledges. It is perfectly safe, but is 
affected by two illusions. 

24 TOWER OF THE HEA VENS (encounter areas T18-19) 


Shalfey will be relieved that the intruders are not Piyarz and his 
fellow conspirators. He will not fight, and if attacked, he will 
attempt to flee (using his defensive spells if possible and where 
appropriate). If the party talks with Shalfey, the DM should 
refer to Conversation with Shalfey - page 25. 

SHALFEY - SAGE, HUMAN, MALE: 

AC 10; MV 12"; HP 26; #AT Nil; D Nil; SA Spells; SD Nil; 
MR Std; AL LN; S 8, I 18, W 16, D 10, C 12, Ch 13; xp 295; 
THACO N/A. 

Clothing - short-sleeved white cloak over white tunic and belt 
(see below). 

Spells memorised (cast as if level 9 magic user) - burning 
hands, wizard lock, dispel magic, minor globe of invunerabil- 
ify, wall of force. 

Personal treasure - mithral chain belt (value - 2000gp), 
medallion of thought projection, eyes of the eagle. 

Major field of knowledge - supernatural and unusual (astro 
logy and numerology; divination; metaphysics; dweomer- 
craft). 

Minor field of knowledge - physical universe and demi- 
humankind. 

This room is a library, bedroom and treasury. The obvious 
contents are a shimmering globe, the burning books, some 
shelves with more books, a desk, a bed and a chair. 

The shimmering globe is an unusual permanent prismatic 
sphere. It does not blind those who see it, is only 10 feet across 
and the ability to pass in and out of it safely is passed on from 
each Elder Sage to his successor. The contents of the sphere 
are described below (see Adventurers' Reward - page 26). 

The burning books are the Books of Prophecy. There are 35 in 
all. Even if the party manages to save them from destruction, 








....hurry, Shatfey our master cads.... he is afraid.... we must find 
the shooting-star....or die.... 



they will be of little value. Most deal with times past and can 
only be read by the Elder Sage. Those books purporting to 
prophesy the future are, in fact, blank (see.... OF BOOKS AND 
A SHOOTING STAR- page 2). 

There are 17 books on the shelves, relating to the study of 
demi-humankind. The desk, bed and chair are all white. The 
desk has a drawer containing pens, ink and parchment. The 
bed and chair are unexceptional. 


Conversation with Shalfey 

The exact course of any conversation between Shalfey and the 
party will depend both on previous events and on the 
questions and responses of the adventurers. The DM should 
bear in mind that the most important purpose of this meeting is 
to encourage the party to go on the final part of the adventure 
(FORGE OF THE KAGU-SVIRFNEBLI - page 27), to give them 
sufficient directions to find the svirfneblin lair and to tempt 
them with a promise of suitable reward. 

First, Shalfey will wish to know who the adventurers are and 
why they came to the tower. He will also be eager to hear 
tidings of his monks (see DEATH ON THE MOORS - page 4). 

If, for some reason, the party have not recovered the shooting- 
star before coming to the tower, then Shalfey will encourage 
them so to do. He will explain, if necessary, that they must go to 
CWM CERNANT (page 8) to see Derwyth the sage. If the 
adventurers have brought Derwyth's notes from his library 
(room C4), Shalfey will be able to use them to calculate the 
approximate landing place of the shooting-star, and will give 
the party the same information that Derwyth would have been 
able to provide (see page 8). 

If Piyarzand his fellow conspirators have not been suppressed, 
Shalfey will ask the adventurers to do this (giving them such 
information and aid as he is able to provide). He will not suffer 
any of the rebel sages to live, and will allow the party to keep 
any of the conspirators' possessions. Shalfey can command 
the instant loyalty of the gnome guards and any monks whose 
masters have been killed. 

Shalfey will tell the party the following: 

- many months ago, his astrological observations led him to 
predict the arrival of a shooting-star of great importance. 

- after arduous study of ancient and esoteric tomes, he found 
an obscure legend describing a race of dark smiths who 
guarded a fabulous library. These smiths, it was said, would 
exchange the books for a mysterious black rock. 

- Shalfey realised that the dark rock in the legend and the 
shooting-star were one and the same. Desiring to own the 
smiths' library, he used his arcane powers to determine the 
location of their forge. 

- to gain the shooting-star, he sent his personal retinue of 
monks to Derwyth, who would guide the monks to its point 
of impact. This had left Shalfey unguarded and had nearly 
been the cause of his downfall when Piyarz made his 
attempted coup. Fortunately, Shalfey had been able to take 
refuge in the tower. 

Shalfey is distorting the truth, with the intention of concealing 
his reliance on the Books of Prophecy whose last entry plainly 



TOWER OF THE HEAVENS (encounter area T19) 25 






Mi rekl Nof.*., too (ate.... my brother > Cost in tfxe mm*, fie 
returns.*.. tuty, *tis onfy fas body - ftis mimfis gone jbrerer.... 



predicted the shooting-star, and told that it could be traded for 
more books. It revealed the position of the FORGE OF THE 
KAGU-SVIRFNEBLI (page 27). Shalfey will ask the party to go 
to the forge with the shooting-star, exchange it for the books 
and bring them back to him. In return, he will offer a reward of a 
magical item for each adventurer from the tower treasury (see 
below), making it clear that only he can enter it safely. 

His directions to the forge are simple - to find a small stream, 
noticeably warmer than usual, which enters the Keldir from the 
south; the forge is at the source of this stream. 


Adventurers' Reward 

If and when the adventurers return from the forge, and 
provided that they have brought all of the second set of Books 
of Prophecy safely, Shalfey will reward each of them with a 
magical item drawn from the prismatic sphere in the greater 
library (T19). The DM should select items, at random, from the 
lists below according to the classes of the recipients. The DM 
should re-roll if any item is indicated more than once. If all of 
the items for a particular class have been allocated, the DM 
should choose a magical item of similar value (from the 
standard lists) for each additional member of that class. 


Roll d6 

Fighters (& 

sub-classes) 

Clerics (& 

sub-classes) 

MUs(& 

sub-classes) 

Thieves (& 

sub-classes) 

and Monks 

1 

short sword 

+1, 

flame tongue 

mace +1 

ring of 

protection +1 

gauntlets 
of dexterity 

2 

chainmail + 2 

pearl of 
wisdom 

bracers of 
defence, 

AC 6 

leather 
armour +1 

3 

shield >2 

plate mail +1 

pearl 
of power 

(1 x 2nd 
level) 

sling of 
seeking + 1 

4 

composite 

longbow +1 

brooch of 
shielding 

75 points 

portable hole 

periapt of 
proof against 
poison +3 

5 

axe, 

throwing >1 

staff 

of curing 

(19 charges) 

staff 

of striking 

(20 charges) 

dagger +1 

(+2 vs 
large opp) 

6 

ioun stone, 

pearly white 

bag of tricks 

(type 1-5) 

necklace of 
prayer beads 

(curing, 
blessing & 
Karma) 

Bucknard's 

everfull 
purse (silver, 
gold & 
electrum) 3 


1 - If monk, cloak of elvenkind 

2 - If monk, light crossbow of distance +1 

3 - If monk, ring of protection +2 

Under no circumstances can Shalfey be persuaded or 
otherwise influenced to part with more than one item per 
character. If, by some exceptional means, the adventurers 
manage to break into the prismatic sphere, it will be found to 

26 THE TO WER OF THE HE A VENS (encounter areas T20-21) 


contain 1-3 of the items in each column (not including those 
already given). If a rod of cancellation is used on the sphere, it 
will implode dramatically (but harmlessly) and its contents will 
be irrevocably lost. 


T20. Labyrinth 

In order to move through the room, characters must negotiate 
a magical labyrinth: 


Beyond the door, you find a small, clear space, 
surrounded on three sides by a swirling mass of 
colours and shapes which seem to extend infinitely 
into the distance. 


On the outside of the door at the bottom of the stairs leading 
down from the observatory (T21) are inscribed the words Turn 
back, for in the maze is a death beyond your imagination.' 

If characters step out from one of the clear spaces which 
surround the door, they will enter the labyrinth and will be 
affected by the equivalent of a maze spell. Characters in the 
maze will be lost for a period of time which depends on their 
intelligence (see PHB p90) and will emerge after this time at 
the other door. 

The maze constantly generates phantasmal killers (see PHB 
p98). While in the maze, the percentage chance of a character 
meeting a phantasmal killer is equal to five times the number of 
rounds spent there. The phantasmal killers will automatically 
gain surprise and attack for d4+3 rounds before disappearing. 
Phantasmal killers turned by characters using a helm of 
telepathy are dispelled since they have no creator as such to 
attack. Because of his 18 intelligence and experience of these 
creatures, Shalfey can use the labyrinth safely. 

No matter what precautions are taken to the contrary, 
characters will always be seperated from each other while in 
the maze. Any physical linkage between characters will be 
sundered by the magical nature of the maze. Characters who 
have joined hands will find their grip loosened, and ropes 
joining two adventurers together will be sundered half way 
between them. This will even be the case with characters of the 
same intelligence who leave the maze together. 


T21. Observatory 

This is the place from which the astronomical observations are 
made. The spiral staircase emerges from a hole in the floor. 
The observatory is currently unoccupied: 

f -¦ > 

The top of the tower is surrounded by a low wall. 
Rising from this and curving inwards to form a dome is 
an intricate lattice of metal strips. In the centre of the 
floor is a chair on a swivelling base. 


By sitting in the chair and observing the position of the stars 
and planets relative to the lattice, accurate records of the 
movements of the heavens may be made. 





forge of the 

KAGU-SVIRFNEBLI 

(encounter areas 9(1-12: (Map 6, (Plan 9() 


Living in an underground lair in the Tegefed mountains (see 
Plan K) is a small group of male svirfnebli. These creatures, 
while still young and foolhardy, ventured far away from their 
kin in search of precious stones. During their diggings, they 
encountered a brilliantly glowing dome (actually the upper 
half of a prismatic sphere - see K10) in an underground 
chamber. Near the dome was a scroll which prophesied that, 
many years hence, creatures would come to that place bearing 
a black stone, that the stone would unlock the dome and that 
the dome's contents must be exchanged for it. Although the 
kagu-svirfnebli do not know it, the sphere contains the second 
set of the Books of Prophecy desired by the sages at the Tower 
of the Heavens. The cutting of the stone, it was said, would 
require a lifetime of care and effort, but it would produce the 
greatest of all gems. Greed overcame the young svirfnebli and, 
not wishing to share the secret with their fellows, they built a 
lair around the chamber of the dome and cut themselves off 
from their kin. The svirfnebli are now old, even by their own 
standards, but have retained many of the characteristics of 
their race and its technology (see the FIEND FOLIO(r) tome). 
However, through their long years of isolation, they have 
devoted much time to the making of machines (for example, 
the MASCHIN-I-BOZORG - see page 32) and their desire for 
the gem has twisted their minds towards evil. 

Their lair is more akin to a forge than a home, and the kagu- 
svirfnebli (as they call themselves) have enslaved a tribe of 
gibberlings to serve and guard them. 

The kagu-svirfnebli trade their wares (jewellery and superb, 
but non-magical, weapons) for food, fuel and raw materials, 
but have been careful to use intermediaries and never to reveal 
the location of their lair. As an added precaution, they have 
cultivated the friendship of a pair of red dragons (see K12). 


ANTICIPATED COURSE OF 
THIS PART OF THE ADVENTURE 

Following the Elder Sage's directions (see Conversation with 
Shalfey - page 25), the adventurers will have very little 
difficulty in finding the valley where the kagu-svirfnebli have 
their forge. 

The gibberlings who guard the approaches to the forge (see 
K1 and K2) are simple-minded and will not enquire as to the 
party's business before attacking. The adventurers should be 
able to overcome them, however. The kagu-svirfnebli and their 
mechanical guardians (the maschin-i-bozorgs) are a different 
matter. The encounter with the small bozorg in the outer hall 
(K4) should convince the party that the main force which they 
will meet in the inner hall (K6) cannot be overcome, and will 
lead them to negotiate (see Negotiations - page 29). 

The kagu-svirfnebli, keen not to break the prophecy of the 
dome, will trade with the adventurers for the shooting-star 
(which they will recognise as the stone predicted by the scroll) 
and will give them the books from the prismatic sphere (K10). 


They will leave the forge via the secret tunnel (K11), setting the 
machines in the workshop (K9) to run out of control and 
destroy the forge after they have left. Having been honest with 
the party up to this point, the kagu-svirfnebli will not be at all 
concerned that the red dragons will attack the adventurers if 
they leave the forge (see Encounter with the Dragons - page 
30). If they delay confronting the dragons, the adventurers will 
be able to prepare for the combat and may find magical items 
in the dormitory (K7) which will be useful to them. If they 
survive, they may plunder the dragons' lair (see K12) and they 
will be rewarded by Shalfey on returning the second set of 
Books of Prophecy to the Tower of the Heavens (see K10). 
These books are useless to anyone other than the Elder Sage 
who is the only person able to understand them. The books are 
very tough (saving against attacks as 'leather/books' at +4) and 
have an encumbrance of lOOgp equivalent each. 


OUTSIDE THE LAIR 

The valley sides are rocky and steep with only sparse 
vegetation. The valley floor is grass-covered with some bushes 
and occasional trees. 

The stream issuing from the forge is hot (like an uncomfortably 
hot bath) and fills the valley near the entrance (see K2) with a 
steamy mist. It causes the streams with which it merges to be 
quite warm. All of the streams are easy to cross. 

The dragons (see K12) will not attack the party as it enters the 
valley, nor will they show themselves. The door of the dragons 
cave is concealed and, unless specifically looked for, it will not 
be visible until the dragons emerge. 


K1. Cavalry Charge 

A squad of mounted gibberlings is concealed here between 
two mountain spurs. It will attack the party on sight: 


A warbling war-cry echoes across the valley, a squad 
of about 20 hairy, naked humanoids mounted on tiny 
horses bursts out from behind a mountain spur and 
charges towards you. 


There are 20 gibberlings of the outdoor variety (who do not 
mind bright light) each mounted on a horse minimal. They will 
fight fearlessly to the death. Each has a longsword but no other 
treasure. 

20 gibberlings: AC 10; MV 9"; HD 1; hp 5 each; #AT 1; D 1-8; 
SA +1 to hit; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Low; AL CN; Size S; xp 19 each; 

THAC018; FF. o u UA -ri 

20 horse minimals: AC 9; MV 16"; HD 1/2+1; hp 3 each; #AT 1; 
D 1; SA Nil; SD Nil; MR Special; Int Animal; AL N; Size S; xp 8 
each; THACO 20*; MMII. 

FORGE OF THE KAGU-SVIRFNEBLI (encounter area K1) 27 




"....wild beast-men in the mountains?" -"Nay, brother, 'tis only 
the idle tale of some merchant..." 



K2. Gibberling Village 

Beside the hot stream in the valley, outside the forge entrance, 
is a gibberling village. When the party arrives, the gibberlings 
will be washing some of their beasts of burden in the stream: 


Throughout the chambers and passages, the throb of the 
machinery in the workshop (K9) can be heard and felt. The 
rooms beyond the inner hall (K7-10) will only be seen by 
characters under escort by the kagu-svirfnebli or in the 
unlikely event that the kagu-svirfnebli have been defeated. 


Leading off from the main valley is a narrow, steep 
sided canyon shrouded in steam or mist which seems 
to be rising from the stream which runs through it. 
Through the mist, you can just see a village of crude 
huts and, nearby, a group of small humanoids 
crowded around some large animals in the stream. 


There are a total of 20 gibberlings, who are washing two 
subterranean lizards in the hot stream. The gibberlings are 
engrossed in their task and, unless the party makes its 
presence known, it will automatically gain 1-2 segments of 
surprise, if it attacks. Both the gibberlings and lizards will fight 
to the death. None of them has any personal treasure. 

20 gibberlings: AC 10; MV 9"; HD 1; hp 5 each; #AT 1; D 1-8 
(long sword); SA +1 to hit; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Low; AL CN; 
Size S; xp 19 each; THACO 18; FF. 

2 subterranean lizards: AC 5; MV 12"; HD 6; hp 32 each; #AT 1; 
D 2-12; SA Double damage on a roll of 20; SD Nil; MR Std; 
Int Non; AL N; Size L; xp 542 each; THACO 13; MM. 

The village consists of 11 circular, wattle-and-daub huts with 
straw roofs. Despite the mist, the entrances to the forge and 
the pens (K3) are visible from here. 

The hut doors are low, and the interiors somewhat squalid (the 
gibberlings live side-by-side with their horses). Inside, they 
contain only straw mattresses, ceramic pots, gnawed bones, 
fruit rinds and so on. 


K3. Lizard Pens 

The remainder of the gibberlings' lizards are penned here: 


K4. Outer Hall 

The passage to the hall from outside is rough-hewn, but the 
hall is very fine. In the centre of the floor is a maschin-i-bozorg: 


As the door swings open, you see an empty hall. It is 
grand but plain, with walls, ceiling and floor polished 
to a metal-like sheen. In the centre of the floor is an 
oval, metallic dome, about eight feet across. 


The maschin-i-bozorg has pulled in its wheels so as to lie flush 
with the floor, and will remain motionless unless attacked or 
until the party enters. It will attack the party until destroyed, 
manoeuvring in each round to catch as many characters as 
possible in its fore and aft blasts of steam. 

Maschin-i-bozorg: AC 1/9; MV 9"; HD 8; hp 30; #AT 2 darts; 
D 1 -3/1 -3; SA Steam (2 jets per round, 2-8 hp damage, half if 
save vs. Breath, cone 3" x 1"), darts (stun and slow), crush; 
SD Nil; MR Std; Int Non; AL N; Size M; xp 950; THACO 12; 
new monster. 


K5a-c. Stores 

These rooms hold the goods which the kagu-svirfnebli obtain 
by trade. The descriptions of each room will be the same: 


You have found a storage room of some kind. It is long 
and narrow, with metal boxes on wheels in neat rows 
along each side. Each cuboid box istallerthan a man. 


r > 

There is a dark, cave-like opening in the cliff face, 
barred by a well made, metal grill. Hissing at you from 
behind the grill are half a dozen large lizards. 


They cannot get out of the pen unless the bolt locking the gate 
is pulled back. If released, they will fight fiercely, but, whilestill 
inside the pen and unable to retaliate, they will shelter at the 
rear of the cave. The pen contains no items of value or interest. 

6 subterranean lizards: AC 5; MV 12"; HD 6; hp 32 each; #AT 1; 
D 2-12; SA Double damage on a roll of 20; SD Nil; MR Std; 
Int Non; AL N; Size L; xp 542 each; THACO 13; MM. 


INSIDE THE FORGE 

The halls of the kagu-svirfnebli have been skilfully hewn from 
the rock of the mountain. They are grand, but functional rather 
than ornate. Unless otherwise stated, all doors are of iron, all 
corridors are 15 feet high and all chambers 30 feet high. 

28 FORGE OF THE KAGU-SVIRFNEBLI (encounter areas K2-6) 


All the stores are kept in standard-sized, metal bins. The bins 
have wheels and each has a hinged lid and a pair of access 
doors on one side. 

Room K5a contains food: flour, dried vegetables, salted meats, 
wines, and so on. Room K5b contains fuel: coal, oil, wood and 
charcoal. Room K5c contains raw materials: glass, clay, ingots 
of iron, copper, tin and other non-precious metals. 


K6. Inner Hall 

There are several, large maschin-i-bozorgs here. They will not 
attack at first, but will summon their kagu-svirfneblin masters: 


The hall before you is grand but plain, the air filled 
with vapour from a stream which crosses it. Barring a 
bridge over the stream are five machines, like the one 
you have just met, but larger! They puff steam 
threateningly, but make no move to attack. 

i ' 








"L earn this welt, my soru... trust given in doubt honours the 
giver.... faith, once broken, can never be repaired...." 



Facing the party across the bridge are a 12-foot-long maschin- 
i-bozorg and four 8-foot-long maschin-i-bozorgs. 

1 twelve-foot-long maschin-l-bozorg: AC 1/9; MV 9"; HD 8; 

hp 70; #AT 8 darts; D1 -3/dart; SA Steam, darts (stun and slow) 
and crush; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Non; AL N; Size L; xp 1700; 
THACO 12; new monster. 

4 eight-foot-long maschin-i-bozorgs: AC 1/9; MV 9"; HD 8; 

hp 50 each; #AT 4 darts; D 1-3/dart; SA Steam, darts (stun, 
slow) and crush; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Non; AL N; Size L; xp 1325 
each; THACO 12; new monster. 

The bozorgs will only attack in self-defence or if the party 
approaches either of the doors in the eastern part of the hall. 
To discourage the adventurers from so doing, the bozorgs will 
puff out harmless, but ominous, jets of steam, and fire 
occasional darts over the heads of the adventurers (making it 
obvious that they intend to miss). 

The kagu-svirfnebli will arrive in the next round. There are 
seven kagu-svirfnebli in all: a burrow warden and six 
assistants. Each of the seven is riding a subterranean lizard 
and is armed with a horseman's pick +1 (non-magical), eight 
stun/slow darts and five acid darts. The kagu-svirfnebli have 
no personal treasure but the mithral rings of their armour are 
worth 3500gp on each suit. 

1 burrow warden: AC -1; MV 9"; HD 6+9; hp 45; #AT 1 or 2; 
D By weapon; SA Spell-like attacks, darts (thrown at +2 to hit); 
SD Various; MR 20%; Int Exceptional; AL N(E); Size S; xp 2250; 
THACO 13; FF (modified). 

6 assistants: AC 0; MV 9"; HD 5+8; hp 33 each; #AT 1 or 2; 
D By weapon; SA Spell-like attacks, darts (thrown at +2 to hit); 
SD Various; MR 20%; Int Exceptional; AL N(E); Size S; xp 1289 
each; THACO 13; FF (modified). 

7 subterranean lizards: AC 5; MV 12"; HD 6; hp 32 each; #AT1; 
D 2-12; SA Double damage on a roll of 20; SD Nil; MR Std; 
Int Non; AL N; Size L; xp 542 each; THACO 13; MM. 

The kagu-svirfnebli have an inkling that the adventurers are 
the promised bearers of the fabled black rock, and will avoid 
combat with them if at all possible. 

On arrival, they will greet the party in the common tongue with 
the words 'Peace! Do you come for trade or war?'. If the party 
and the bozorgs are in combat, the kagu-svirfnebli will order 
the latter to stop. If the party responds favourably to the 
greeting, then negotiations will begin. If not, then the bozorgs 
will be ordered to destroy the party. The kagu-svirfnebli will 
involve themselves in the fight only if absolutely necessary, 
and will call a halt to it at once if the party sues for peace. 


Negotiations 

The kagu-svirfnebli are desperate to possess the 'black rock' 
(the shooting-star) and will be brief and frank in their 
negotiations with the party. In return for the rock, they will give 
the adventurers the contents of their 'shimmering dome' i.e. 
the second set of Books of Prophecy (see K10). To open the 
dome, however, they will need the shooting-star. If the 
adventurers wish it, the kagu-svirfnebli will take some or all of 
them to the dome (K10) so that the exchange can take place 
there. If the party is split up, the kagu-svirfnebli will divide their 
forces accordingly to guard the two groups. 



FORGE OF THE KAGU-SVIRFNEBLI (encounter area K6) 29 













The kagu-svirfnebli are very intelligent, and not easily fooled 
or confused. They will not attempt to trick the party, they will 
not attack without provocation and will unhesitatingly give up 
the books for the shooting-star. They will instinctively 
recognise the true 'black rock' and will not accept an imitation. 


It is suggested that one dragon (chosen at random) should 
breathe automatically in each of the first 6 rounds. The DM can 
choose to alter this according to particular circumstances. 


K7. Dormitory 


After the Exchange 

The kagu-svirfnebli will escort the adventurers back to the 
inner hall (K6) and will tell them to wait. They will leave the 
inner hall by the south-eastern corridor and shut it behind 
them by pressing a concealed panel which will cause a heavy 
iron door (6 inches thick) to slide across it at the position 
shown on Plan K. 

Passing through the workshop (K9) the kagu-svirfnebli will set 
the machines to run out of control. The machines will shake 
violently and the whole lair will begin to tremble as if an 
earthquake were in progress. Five rounds later, the steam 
cylinder will explode, causing the workshop to cave in, thus 
blocking any pursuit. After this the tremors will cease. 
Although only the workshop will bedamaged by the vibrations 
and explosion, the DM should not prevent the players from 
concluding that the whole place will collapse! 


Obsessed with their work and dreams of the gem, the kagu- 
svirfnebli have little or no regard for lesser treasures or their 
own comfort: 

This is a large but stark dormitory. There are seven 
alcoves, each containing a single iron-framed bed. In 
the centre of the room is a metal table with seven 
metal chairs around it. 

s,___ J 

The iron furniture is much heavier than the usual wooden 
variety. At the rear of the chamber is an iron door with a heavy 
duty lock. Thieves will have a normal chance of picking the 
lock and the door will take 3 points of structural damage before 
collapsing. The recess behind the door contains racks bearing 
various items, all labelled in svirfneblin. Unfortunately for the 
players, the labels are not entirely reliable. 


Encounter with the Dragons 

The explosion will alarm Grisdelfawr and Pyrofenix, a pair of 
medium-sized, sub-adult red dragons, who will fly out from 
their lair (K12) to investigate. When the adventurers leave the 
forge, they will see them flying overhead: 


As you leave the mouth of the tunnel, you hear a thin, 
blood-freezing cry and the baneful sound of leathery 
wings from the sky above. Two red dragons, scales 
aglister, are circling overhead. Their heads move from 
side to side scanning the valley for prey. Even from 
this great distance you can see their awesome bulk 
and huge, gaping maws. Fortunately, they have not 
yet espied you.... 

S_x 


Grisdelfawr and Pyrofenix can talk, but cannot cast spells. 
They will attack the adventurers on sight, but will not see them 
unless they leave the entrance tunnel or remain in view at its 
mouth for more than 3 rounds. Confused and alarmed by the 
tremors, they will circle the valley outside the forge for 2 hours 
after the party sees them. After this they will land in the 
gibberling village (K2) and waitforthe kagu-svirfnebli to come 
out of the forge to tell them what has happened. The kagu- 
svirfnebli will not come, of course, but the party will have to, 
eventually.... 


Item 

Clerical scroll: prayer 
MU scroll: strength, fire shield 
1 block of incense of meditation 
Potion of heroism 
A jar of Keoghtom's ointment 
loun stone (exhausted) 


Label 

Obscure writings 
Magical power and fire wall 
Fakir's smoke 
Magical vitality 
War paint 
Magical pebble 


K8. Lizard Pens 

The kagu-svirfnebli pen their beasts of burden here, and also 
use the pens as a safe place in which to keep their more 
valuable raw materials: 


A large opening in the wall of the corridor is barred by 
a metal gate. From the darkness beyond, several large 
giant lizards appear, and hiss angrily at you through 
the bars. 

i - J 


There are seven subterranean lizards here. They will obey the 
kagu-svirfnebli but will attack any other creatures on sight. In 
the small, rectangular chamber at the rear of the pen, the 
kagu-svirfnebli store gold, silver, platinum and mithral ingots 
(total values -1200gp, 2000gp, 2000gp and 6500gp respective 
ly) and a bag of assorted, uncut gems (current value - 600gp). 


If the adventurers decide not to meet the dragons at once, they 
will be able to prepare for the battle inside the forge since the 
dragons are too large to enter. They may find items of use to 
them in the dormitory (K7). 


7 subterranean lizards: AC 5; MV 12"; HD 6; hp 32 each; #AT 1; 
D 2-12; SA Double damage on a roll of 20; SD Nil; MR Std; 
Int Non; AL N; Size L; xp 542 each; TKACO 13; MM. 


Grisdelfawr and Pyrofenix: 2 medium-sized, sub-adult red 
dragons; AC -1; MV 9"/24"; HD 10; hp 30 each; #AT 3; 
D 1-8/1-8/3-30; SA Breath; SD Nil; MR Std; Int Exceptional; 
AL CE; Size L; xp 2,060 each; THACO 10; MM. 

30 FORGE OF THE KAGU-SVIRFNEBLI (encounter areas K7-9) 


K9. Workshop 

In this room, the kagu-svirfnebli have fashioned a range of very 
strange, steam-driven machines: 





He said the ground trembled... the mountains too.... 
tales of a great iron dragon.... never sleeping.... 




/- 

As the door opens, you are met by a gust of hot, humid 
air and an almost deafening sound like a dozen, 
massive, brazen drums accompanied by unnatural 
whines and hisses. The chamber is huge, and 
towering over you are massive, metal contraptions 
moving like insane distorted beasts and gouting 
bursts of flame and steam. 


The machines are powered by steam from a large cylinder at 
the eastern end of the workshop which is fed by a natural 
geyser. The construction and operation of these machines is 
beyond the understanding of the adventurers who will be able 
to recognise only the most basic aspects of their workings. If 
tampered with by the adventurers, the outcome should be 
determined by a roll of a d20: 


K11. Secret Tunnel 

The secret tunnel leading west from the workshop (K9) turns 
south and continues for nearly 20 miles to a second, secret 
hideout constructed by the kagu-svirfnebli and defended by 
more maschin-i-bozorgs. 

The kagu-svirfnebli will use this tunnel to sneak away after 
concluding their business with the party. When they are well 
clear of the forge, the burrow warden will cause the tunnel to 
collapse behind them. It is very unlikely, therefore, that the 
party will find this lair but the DM may wish to design the 
second lair as a setting for further adventures, in which case 
some means of finding it should be provided. 


K12. Red Dragons' Lair 


1-4: No effect. 

5-9: Blast of steam - inflicts 2d10 hit points of damage on the 
character (halved if save vs. Breath). 

10-14: Blast of flames - inflicts 3d8 hit points of damage on the 
character (halved if save vs. Breath). 

15-19: Character hit by moving machinery - inflicts 2d8 hit 
points of damage (negated if save vs. Petrification). 

20: Out of control. The machines start to shake violently 
and the whole lair begins to tremble ominously. This 
tremor will become progressively worse until, 5 rounds 
later, the steam cylinder will explode, causing the 
workshop to cave in, killing all occupants. Once 
started, the process cannot be stopped. 

If unattended by the kagu-svirfnebli, the machinery will begin 
to run out of control after d10+10 turns. 

In addition to the machines, there are ordinary workbenches, 
forges, anvils etc. here, along with a wide range of metal- and 
gem-working tools. 


K10. Shimmering Dome 

The octagonal chamber contains only the prismatic sphere in 
which is the second set of Books of Prophecy: 


The room is flooded with multi-coloured light from a 
dome of swirling patterns in the centre of the floor. 


The dome is that found by the kagu-svirfnebli long ago. It is 
actually a permanent prismatic sphere which entends below 
the floor, and the kagu-svirfnebli have never managed to 
penetrate it. 

If the shooting-star is taken into the room, the sphere will 
vanish, revealing a neat stack of 20 leather-bound books. 
These are the second set of Books of Prophecy sought by the 
Elder Sage. They are of no value to anyone other than him 
since only he can understand them. If they carry the books 
safely to the Tower of the Heavens, the adventurers will be 
rewarded by Shalfey (see The Adventurers' Reward - page 26). 
Each book has an encumbrance of lOOgp equivalent. The 
books are not magical, but are very resilient and make all 
saving throws against attacks as 'leather/book' at +4. 


Grisdelfawr and Pyrofenix, a pair of medium-sized, sub-adult 
red dragons, live in a lair high above the valley near the forge. 
The lair has a concealed door, and the dragons will not reveal 
themselves when the party arrives. However, the destruction of 
the workshop (K9) - see Negotiations (page 29) will alert them 
and they will fly out, leaving the door open and clearly visible 
from the valley floor. This is decribed in Encounter with the 
Dragons (page 30). The adventurers will have no difficulty in 
scrambling up the rocky slope to the lair's entrance. 

Beyond the door of the lair is a short tunnel, 15 feet high, 15 
feet wide and 20 feet long. At the end of the tunnel is a hewn 
chamber, roughly circular in form, 30 feet across and 20 feet 
high: 


The air in this rough cavern is heavy with an almost 
overpowering stench, but your discomfort is quickly 
forgotten as your gaze lights upon an unmistakable 
glint from a large heap at the rear of the chamber.... 


In a heap at the rear of the chamber is the treasure with which 
the kagu-svirfnebli have bribed the dragons: 


- Two suits of chain mail armour (the equivalent of elfin chain - 
See DMG p27; one human-sized and one dwarf-sized). 

- One human-sized suit of plate armour ('field plate' - see DMG 
p27). 

- One longsword +1. 

- One scimitar +1. 

- One heavy crossbow . 

- A pouch containing eight svirfnebli darts. These have a 
range of 40', and inflict 1-3hp of damage. Any creature 
struck by one of these darts must save vs. Poison, or be 
stunned for the next round and slowed for the 4 rounds 
following. 

- Assorted jewellery made from gold, silver and gems: a 
coronet (lOOOOgp), two chalices (3000gp, lOOOgp), three 
necklaces (2000gp, lOOOgp, 200gp), an orb (2000gp), 
three rings (lOOOgp, 500gp, 200gp), two statuettes 
(5000gp, lOOgp), three collars (500gp (x2), 200gp), two 
brooches (500gp, 200gp) and a buckle (200gp). The total 
value of the jewellery is 28100gp. 


THE FORGE OF THE KAGU-SVIRFNEBLI (encounter areas K10-12) 31 





NEW MONSTERS 



MASCHIN-I-BOZORG 



FREQUENCY: Very rare 
No. APPEARING: 1-20 
ARMOUR CLASS: 1/9 
MOVE: 9" 

HIT DICE: 4' - 30hp; Q' - 50hp; 

12' - 70hp . 

% IN LAIR: 100 % 

TREASURE TYPE: Nil 
NO. OF ATT A CKS: 4' - 2 darts; 

8' - 4 darts; 12' -8 darts 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: 1-3 per dart 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Steam, darts 
(stun and slow) and crush (see below) 

SPECIAL DEFENCES: Nil 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Standard 
INTELLIGENCE: Non- 
ALIGNMENT: Neutral 
SIZE: 4' - S; 8' - M; 12' - L 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Attack/defence modes: Nil 

LEVEL/xp VALUE: 4' - VI/950; 8' - VII /1325; 12' - VI1/1700 


The number of darts fired per round depends on the size of the 
bozorg (darts can be fired in any direction): 

4' bozorg - 2 darts per round 
8' bozorg - 4 darts per round 
12' bozorg - 8 darts per round 

If the bozorg rolls over a prone victim, it will cause 1-4 hit 
points of crushing damage each round until it moves on, or is 
flipped over. 


This diabolical machine, created by the kagu-svirfnebli, 
consists of a low, elongated, metal dome, whose surface is 
broken only by small slits through which its weapons may be 
fired. Only the kagu-svirfnebli understand its construction and 
animation. It is propelled by a multitude of small wheels that 
protrude from its underside. The bozorg fires darts which stun 
and slow (see the svirfneblin in the FIEND FOLIO(r) tome) and 
has two nozzles which emit jets of steam. There are three sizes 
of bozorg measuring 4,8 and 12 feet in length, and which have 
varying hit points and attacks as shown. All of them attack and 
save as 8 hit dice monsters. 

The vapour jets fire simultaneously to the fore and aft in a 
cone, with varying effects as follows (a successful saving 
throw vs. Breath means that the damage is halved): 

4' bozorg - range 3"; base diameter 1"; damage 2-8hp 
8' bozorg - range 6"; base diameter 2"; damage 3-12hp 
12' bozorg - range 9"; base diameter 3"; damage 4-16hp 


If reduced to below zero hit points, a bozorg's power source 
will overload, rapidly heating its outer shell and causing 1-8 hit 
points of heat damage to anyone within 10 feet. After one 
round it implodes (harmlessly) and cools, becoming complete 
ly useless. If the bozorg is turned over, it cannot move and its 
underside (AC 9) is exposed. If, during combat, a character 
scores a hit, having previously stated an intention to try to turn 
the monster over, the chance of doing so is shown below (note 
that no damage is done to the bozorg during the attempt): 

4' bozorg - bend bars percentage 
8' bozorg - bend bars -10% 

12' bozorg - bend bars -20% 

A bozorg can move easily over any smooth surface at an angle 
of less than 45 degrees. However, it will become completely 
immobilised by soft ground. It is immune to attacks using heat, 
cold or electricity as well as any attacks upon the will or mind, 
as the bozorg has neither. 


MEMORY WEB 


FREQUENCY: Very rare 
No. APPEARING: 1 
ARMOUR CLASS: 2 
MOVE: 3" or leap 18" 

HIT DICE: 6 
% IN LAIR: Nil 
TREASURE TYPE: Nil 
NO. OF ATTACKS: 1 
DAMAGE/ATTACK: 1-6 
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil 
SPECIAL DEFENCES: Non-magical 
weapons only do 
half damage 
MAGIC RESISTANCE: 

INTELLIGENCE: Very 
ALIGNMENT: Neutral 
SIZE: See below 
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil 
Attack/defence modes: Nil 
LEVEL/xp VALUE: IV/110 + 4 per hit point 

32 NEW MONSTERS 


Standard 



This creature is an animated mass of fibres resem 
bling those created by a web spell (see PHB p72) and 
has similar but not identical attributes. It can hide by 
compressing itself into a tight ball and attacks by leap 
ing up to 18", spreading out as it does so. It will 
enmesh anyone within a circular area 20 feet across 
and does not need anchor points. Anyone caught has 
the same chance of breaking free as from a normal 
web, and will take 1-6 hit points of damage (by con 
striction) per round until the web is destroyed or they 
are released. A memory web will take only half dam 
age from non-magical weapons or fire. 

Memories of dead victims are absorbed by the 
memory web, and if destroyed, it will emit all 
memories gained during the previous day, in a kind 
of telepathic shock wave. These will lodge in the 
minds of creatures up to 200 feet from the web, and 
will take the form of dream-like recollections with 
some details clear, and others just beyond recall. 

9120XXX1510 




PLAN C - CWM CERNANT (areas ci-cs) i square = 10' 




Arrival 


Details of 
Derwyth 


Larger Wood 
Creatures 


Giant eagles (2), will escort 

party to Derwyth, only fight 
if attacked 

Derwyth, druidic sage (1), 
knows where star fell 

Sabre-tooth tiger (1), 
protects Derwyth 
Giant goats (3), protect 
Derwyth 

Gorilla (1), protects 
Derwyth 

Giant stags (3 male, 

15 female) 

Giant wasps (9) 

Giant otters (2) 

Huge spiders (5) 

All wood creatures are 
normally unseen, will 
defend Derwyth if necessary 


PLAN D - DERRO LAIR (AREAS D2-Dll) 1 SQUARE - 10' 


(P8) 

(P9) 


(plO) 


(plO) 

(plO) 

(plO) 


D3(p12) Outer Cave 
D4(p12) Inner Cave 
D5 (pi3) Temple 

D7 (pi 3) Slave Pens 

D8 (pi4) Chief's Room 
DIO (p14) Trapped Lamia 


Derro (leader and 6 warriors), guarding entrance to lair 
Human slave (1), arrives from D5, insane, of no help to party 
Derro (leader and 6 warriors), supervising slaves, will flee to D7 if 

losing fight . . . 

Human slaves (2 men, 2 women) digging, insane, no help to party 

Derro students (2), studying shooting-star, cast spells in melee 
Derro warriors (4), defend students, possibly aided by fugitives 
from D5 

Coffer corpses (3), corpses of chief/lieutenants, attack fearlessly 
Lamia (1). trapped in room, casts illusion before combat 














































































































K1 (p27) 

Cavalry Charge 

K2 (p28) 

Gibberling Village 

K3(p28) 
K4(p28) 
K6 (p28) 

Lizard Pens 

Outer Hall 

Inner Hall 

K8 (p30) 
K12 (p31) 

Lizard Pens 

Red Dragons' Lair 


STAIRS U<-D 

SPIRAL 

STAIRCASE 

LADDER UP TO 
TRAPDOOR 
TRAPDOOR AND 
LADDER DOWN 

CURTAINS 


SHEER DROP 


Gibberlings (20), attack party fearlessly on sight 
Horse minimals (20), ridden by gibberlings 

Gibberlings (20), washing lizards, may be surprised, 
fight fearlessly 

Subterranean lizards (2), may be surprised, fight 
fearlessly 

Subterranean lizards (6), locked in pen, attack if let out 
Maschin-i-bozorg (1), attacks anyone entering room 

Kagu-svirfnebli (burrow warden and 6 assistants), 
negotiate with party 

Subterranean lizards (7), ridden by kagu-svirfnebli 
Maschin-i-bozorgs (5), will deter party from combat, 
controlled by kagu-svirfnebli 

Subterranean lizards (7), locked in pen, attack if let out 

Adult, red dragons (2), attack party as it leaves forge 
(see p30) 



FLOODED 

TUNNEL 


RIVER 


TREES 


GRASS 


ROCK 


RUBBLE 

b'fjS (HAZARDOUS) 

RUBBLE 
(REMOVEABLE) 


(r)1984 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 



































































































































































































PLAN T -TO VVER OF THE HEAVENS (AREAS T1-T21) 



1 SQUARE = 10' 


T2(p19) 
T3 (pi 9) 
T4 (pi 9) 

T5 (p20) 

T6 (p20) 

T7(p20) 
T8(p21) 
Til(p21) 
T12(p21) 
T14(p22) 


T1 (p18) Hadley the 
Ferryman 
Barbican 
Hostel 
Entrance 
Chamber 
Questioners' Hall 

Stone Guardian's 
Door 

Mercenaries' Hall 
Barracks 
Warded Door 
Watch Towers 
Lesser Library 


T16 (p23) Scholars'Hall 


T17(p23) 
T19(p24) 


Piyarz's Chamber 
Greater Library 


Hadley, monk (1), greets adventurers with password, gives 

information . 

Gnome guards (6), will question party on arrival 
Warden and staff (5), see to needs of visitors to tower 
Gnome guards (12), guard entrance and escort visitors to T5 

Lurg, sage (1), gives replies, casts spells if attacked 

Monks (2), defend Lurg . 

Stone guardian (1), attacks if door is opened from T5 

Gnome guards (captain and 20 guards), defend tower 
Gnome guards (20), sleeping, defend tower, if awoken 
Fire trap, explodes if opened by other than sages, monks, scr 
Gnome guards (6 towers, each with 6 guards) defend tower 

Porro, sage (1), casts hypnotic pattern before fleeing to T16 

Cipolla, sage (1), flees to T16 

Monks (4), will attack to defend sages 

Scribes (4), will panic and flee in random directions 

Plyarz, sage (1), attacks by casting spells 

Monks (4), will attack to defend Piyarz 

Imp, familiar (1), turns invisible, attacks with suggestion and tail ) 

Spectator (1), only attacks to defend treasure 

Shalfey, sage (1), instructs party for next stage of adventure 



[ 


1 















LEVEL 2 

































-H 1A VU4 m - TTX - 777 T 

MAP 4 -THERNO PASS 








ft P3 


ll HEX = 200' 


P1 

Beaver Dam 

(p15) 

Giant beavers (3 adults), attack if 
dam is damaged or climbed, will 
call for help 

P2 

Beavers' Lake 

(pi 5) 

Hunters (leader and 9 men), will 
aid beavers at PI, difficult to 
befriend 

P3 

Beavers' Lodge 

(pi 6) 

Giant beavers (3 adults and 5 
young), adults will aid beavers at 
PI 

P4 

Hunters' Camp 

(p16) 

Hunters' families (7 women and 


15 children), will fight only in 
self-defence 



WHEN 


MAP 1 - THE REGIOIS 


M Death on the Moors (p4) 
SI/2 Piyarz's Shadow (p7) 



KEY 

' TO MAP 1 


/ 

l y 

TRACK 


P 

RIVER 


"K 

BRIDGE 


^ \ 

V 

FERRY 



LOWLANDS 






FOREST 


Memory we 

memories v 

Sion, monk 

wounded 


Shadow ma 

bays before 

Huge raven 



n 


9120XXX1411 




























































































































NEAR THE TOWER 

Nsigih P refer to-\ \ 

Bfe^STt^PLAN T / \ / 


MAP 5 


REFER TO 
PLAN D 


A STAR FALLS 


1 HEX = 5 MILES 


eb (1), has killed Shalfey's monks, releases 
when killed 

k/shade (1), attacks at night, flees if badly 

astiff (1), always with Sion, flees if he does, 
e attacking 

n (1), always with Sion, flees if he does 


KEY TO MAPS 2,JM, 5 AND 6 

TREES 

GRASS 
MOUNTAIN 
CLIFF 

CAVE MOUTH 
CRATER 


\ 

1 

\ 

TRACK 

1 

A 

m 

RIVER 

o 0 

WATERFALL 


A 

LAIR 

ENTRANCE 


0 

00 

HUTS 

1 

¦w.-; 

BEAVER DAM 
/ LODGE 



HEX = 200' 


MAP. 3 % 

- NEAR THE DERRO LAIR 

/// ^ V 


1 HEX = 200' v 


-4 %0 7 ! )-K : ' 1 )-< / / >-( / 

)mAP 2 - NEAR CWM CERNANT 


HEX = 200' 3 


(c)1984 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved 









































































KEY TO PLANS 


DOUBLE DOORS 


TTJ LOCKED DOOR 


ir"; 


ill 1 


r-- :] SLIDING DOOR 


!•••¦ BARRED GATE 


I "I STAIRS U"-D 


p^-^STAIRCASE 

- LADDER UP TO 

0 TRAPDOOR 

fp] TRAPDOOR AND 

__ LADDER DOWN 

I CURTAINS 


K1 (p27) Cavalry Charge 
K2 (p28) Gibberling Village 


K3 (p28) Lizard Pens 
K4 (p28) Outer Hall 
K6(p28) Inner Hall 


K8 (p30) Lizard Pens 
K12 (p31) Red Dragons'Lair 


1 SQUARE = 10' 


Gibberlings (20), attack party fearlessly on sight 
Horse minimals (20), ridden by gibberlings 

Gibberlings (20), washing lizards, may be surprised, 
fight fearlessly 

Subterranean lizards (2), may be surprised, fight 
fearlessly 

Subterranean lizards (6), locked in pen, attack if let out 
Maschin-i-bozorg (1), attacks anyone entering room 

Kagu-svirfnebli (burrow warden and 6 assistants), 
negotiate with party 

Subterranean lizards (7), ridden by kagu-svirfnebli 
Maschin-i-bozorgs (5), will deter party from combat, 
controlled by kagu-svirfnebli 

Subterranean lizards (7), locked in pen, attack if let out 

Adult, red dragons (2), attack party as it leaves forge 
(see p30) 

(r)1984 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


SHEER DROP 

FLOODED 

TUNNEL 


iVflV (HAZARDOUS) 


RUBBLE 

(REMOVEABLE) 



















Advanced 

Dungeons|ypra3ons 

Official Game Adventure 


WHEN A STAR FALLS 

by Graeme Morris 


The power of prophecy is given to few. Wise 
are they who guard this gift well, for those who 
thirst after such knowledge are not always men 
of principle. 

Bastion of destiny, the Tow^r of the Heavens 
stands silhouetted against the star-studded 
night sky. From within his darkened observa 
tory, perched like an eyrie on the highest tur 
ret, a figure in white charts the course of a 
shooting-star as it disappears behind the 
snow-capped peaks of the Tegefed mountains. 

The old man smiles grimly to himself: the 
event foretold has come to pass! 

Power, glory, riches - it takes years to 
acquire them. The uncanny accuracy of their 
predictions has brought all these and more to 
the sages of the Tower of the Heavens. But 
what is hard to win is often easier to lose, and 
the future of the tower now hangs in the bal 
ance. 

For it is written that the day of reckoning 
draws nearer when a star falls.... 

9120XXX1410 0-88 0 38-123-X 


(c) 1984 TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in G.S.A. 




TSR, Inc. 

PRODUCTS OF YOUR IMAGINATION'" 



















