Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
Sign up for free
Log in
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Events Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer
Full text of "tsr02439_-_Windriders_of_the_Jagged_Cliffs"
See other formats



TSR |rv 

2D1 Sherid.in vn f ng<, fitad 
Lake pefttva 
VVI 53 H 7 
USA 

TSR Lid 

120 church End 

Cl'wry 11 inlnn 
iZambndgf CBl 3L& 

LMited Kingdom 

24ji?xy.Ki90i 


Credits 

Design: Monte Cook 
Editor: Doug Stewart 
Creative Director: Dori Hein 
Cover Art: Stephen A. Daniele 

Interior Art: Jim Crabtree, John Dollar, & Sue Billings 
Graphic Design: Paul Hanchette & Don Danowski 
Cartography: Diesel & David C. Sutherland III 
Art Director: Stephen A. Daniele 
Typography: Tracey L. Isler 
Special Thanks: Sue Weinlein, Bill Slavicsek 


Advanced Dungeons & Dragons, AD&D, Dark Sun, Monstrous Compendium, and Dungeon Master are 
registered trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. The TSR logo and Monstrous Manual are trademarks owned 
by 
TSR, Inc. All TSR characters, character names, and the distinctive likenesses thereof are trademarks 
owned 
by TSR, Inc. Random House and its affiliate companies have worldwide distribution rights in the book 
trade 
for English-language products of TSR, Inc. Distributed to the book and hobby trade in the United 
Kingdom 
by TSR Ltd. Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors. This product is protected by 
the 
copyright laws of the United States of America. Any reproduction or unauthorized use of the material or 
artwork contained herein is prohibited without the express written permission of TSR, Inc. Copyright 
(c)1995 
TSR, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Made in the U.S.A. 



Permission granted to photocopy or 
print this product for personal use. 


Introduction . 4 

Masters and Servants . 4 

The Jagged Cliffs. 5 

Chapter 1: Children of History . 7 

Physiology. 7 

Rajaat's Curse (sidebar). 10 

Psychology . 12 

Clothing and Fashion . 13 

Feral Halflings . 14 

Creating Rhul-Thaun Characters.. 14 

Character Kits. 18 

Adventuring on the Jagged Cliffs. 21 

Chapter 2: The Ages of the Rhul-Thaun . 24 

The Dawn of Time . 24 

The Birth of the Rhul-thaun. 25 

Isolation. 25 

The Old Ways Decline. 2 7 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 


A Threat From Beyond . 28 

Cleansing Wars and Sorcerer-Kings. 28 

Recent Events. 28 

Halfling History. 29 

Chapter 3: Life on the Cliffs . 30 

A Society of Ritual . 3 0 

Living a Vertical Life. 32 

Life-View. 33 

Religion and Reverence. 34 

Clan Structure and Family. 3 4 

The Har-Etuil . 35 

Crime and Punishment. 35 

Economics . 36 

Occupations. 3 8 

Architecture . 4 4 

A Day in the Life . 4 5 

Language. 46 

Chapter 4: Life on the Ledge . 49 

Organization . 49 

Thamasku . 5 0 

Pareth . 5 6 

Glerran. 58 

Sahr-tosh . 61 

Yihn-tol . 63 

Ter-omak . 64 

Vi r-rath . 6 6 

Sunnil . 67 

Reg-tol . 67 

Bav-rem. 6 8 

Other Races of the Jagged Cliffs. 70 


2 

















































Chapter 5: The Shapers of Life . 74 

The Life-shaper.74 

The Lore of Life. 77 

Classifications of Shaped Objects. 7 8 

Armor. 7 9 

Weapons . 8 1 

Equipment. 83 

Transport.87 

Guardians . 8 8 

Rhulisti Artifacts. 8 9 

Engines . 91 

Grafts . 91 

Producers . 92 

Building Materials . 92 

Medicinal Applications. 93 

Tending the Shaped.9 3 

The Effects of Magic. 9 4 

Chapter 6 : Into the Swamp . 9 6 

Background . 96 

Getting the Heroes Involved. 9 7 

The Set Up . 9 7 

On the Trail . 9 8 

Downward. 101 

The Base of the Cliffs . 102 

The Swamp . 103 

The Inverted Pyramid. 109 

Ending the Adventure. 117 

Jagged Cliffs Adventure Hooks. 117 

Monstrous Manual(r) Appendix 

Reggelid . 120 

Bvanen . 122 

Life-Shaped Creations: Guardians. 124 

Life-Shaped Creations: Transport. 126 



3 





































thing 

appeared, a 
creature I 
suppose, it 
seemed more 


Wanderer's 
Journal 

My journey to the jagged 
Cliffs was arduous and 
harrowing but that 
sojourn is not the tale I 
wish to tell. My story is 
of life-life on cliffs 
that cleave the surface 
of At has like a jagged 
scar. / approached 
those unimaginable 
precipices, / encountered 
a sight both wondrous and 
bizarre. A 


Masters 


bubble than 
beast, drifting 
out of the 
curtains of 
mist that rose 
before the 
cliffs. 

Attached to its 
belly was a 
sort of car 
riage. Inside this fixture was a 
lone figure. 

As the beast and its cargo (I 
knew not at that point if the fig 
ure was the creature's master or 
captive) approached, I could see 
that the rider was a hatfling. This 
fellow showed no signs of the 
wild nature common to his peo 
ple. He stood proud and tall, his 
long hair streaming; I took him 
for a halfling noble. He coaxed 
the floating creature to land and 
approached me, obviously as 
curious as I-perhaps more. 

He spoke a version of an 
ancient tongue that I had heard 
before, one not completely dis 
similar to the common tongue 
spoken in the Tablelands. He 
named himself Gen-onath of the 
rhul-thaun. Gen-onath seemed as 
unfamiliar with my race and 
appearance as I was with his. 

Nor did he recognize the term 
"halfling," with which I hailed 
him. I braced myself for a con 
frontation. 


and Servants 

"The fundamental forces of life, being what they are, have left us with no other option. \Ne 
had to either master them or be mastered ourselves. Despite this, we have never treated 
our creations as anything less than they truly are: living extensions of the energies that per 
meate our world. /4s such, we use them only insofar as the needs of the world require. We 
are both the masters of the world and its humble servants. Let that forever be our creed. " 

-The Dat-erat 

So it is written and recorded in the Dat-erat, the word of the people. This ancient device 
dates back thousands of years and remains the most cherished artifact of my folk. We are 
the people of the cliffs, and we have placed its words deep in our hearts. 

I am Loi Far-oneth, a keeper of the secrets of life. It is my duty to preserve the memory 
of the elder ways. The mastery of life and its shaping are mine to maintain. Long ago my 
people learned how to harness the energies and the stuff of life itself, creating that which 
we needed to make our will a reality. We call this ability life-shaping. Much is now forgot 
ten, but we cling to what we can, performing the rituals and creating the tools. We hold 
fast to the knowledge of our ancestors as tightly as we hold to the sides of the Jagged Cliffs 
where we make our homes. 

Here on the cliffs we watch the hated kreen and their vile practices. We guard against 
their presence, while gazing down into the horrors of the dismal swamp. And we wait. 

We wait for High Lord Rhan Thes-oneTs return. 

In ages long past, the greatest of us, Rhan Thes-onel, left his home on the cliffs in search 
of what lies beyond, promising that he would return with a true purpose for us, our place 
in relation to all things. Though Lord Rhan has not yet returned, many of us still believe 
that he will, in one form or another. /4s both the masters and the servants of the world, we 
must discover our legacy as heirs of our ancestors within the grand design. 

Yet, to my sorrow, there are those who itch to wander. Many of our young long to see 
what lies beyond our home here on the nurturing cliffs. And if they satisfy that longing, I 
know it will bring disaster upon us all. 


-From the Journal of Loi Far-oneth 


4 


Windriders of the Jagged Cliffs is the first accessory supporting the expanded Dark Sun(tm) 
campaign setting. All that is needed to use this product is that box and the AD&D(r) rule 
books. Please note that references in this accessory have been abbreviated: DMG is the 
Dungeon Master 0 Guide and PHB stands for the Player's Handbook. 

This accessory describes the Jagged Cliffs, the enormous rocky mountains to the west of 
the Tyr Region. The cliffs separate the highlands from the endless savanna plain inhabited 
by the thri-kreen and their indomitable empire. More importantly, however, Windriders of 
the Jagged Cliffs details the rhul-thaun, a society of halflings that has endured from the 
ancient days of Athas. These people cleave to the cliffs on ledge-villages, using an arcane 
art called life-shaping to survive in this strange environment. The art of life-shaping is a 
carryover from the days when water was plentiful and all forms of life thrived before exis 
tence on Athas became ruthless. It enables the halflings to form organic tools, weapons, 
armor, and even buildings. It also allows them to create the living, flying craft they use to 
ride the wind from ledge to ledge along the cliffs. 

Please note that while "halfling" and "rhul-thaun" are used interchangeably in this prod 
uct, the halflings of the Jagged Cliffs are different from normal Athasian halflings, who are 
usually characterized by savagery and a feral, ravenous nature. Indeed, the halflings of the 
Jagged Cliffs are unlike any of their cousins to be found in other AD&D world. In many 
ways, the rhul-thaun are a more sophisticated and detail-oriented people. They are care 
takers of an ancient lore. They use their nimble fingers in the arts of life manipulation and 
scaling the enormously high cliffs. Quick eyes and impressive senses guard them against 
the terrifying and peculiar monsters that make their lairs on these ledges. 

Accustomed to a harsh, survival-based lifestyle, they are as alien to their counterparts in 
other settings as the elves, dwarves, and thri-kreen races of Athas. However, inhabitants of 
the immediate campaign setting, the Tyr Region, will find these halflings very different 
from any they have ever encountered. The Jagged Cliffs are not the dry, lifeless deserts 
with which Dark Sun players have been familiar. The humid mists that blanket the region 
carry their own challenges and dangers, however, and are just as deadly as the water- 
starved desert. 

The life-shaping arts of the rhul-thaun and their fragmentary knowledge of the past will 
be completely new to existing Dark Sun characters. The rhul-thaun can also provide 
adventurers with a great deal of valuable information regarding the thri-kreen threat 
beyond the Jagged Cliffs. If treated properly, these halflings could prove to be invaluable 
allies to those explorers outbound from the city-states of the sorcerer-kings. 

To understand the rhul-thaun, however, one must examine their strange, ritualistic soci 
ety, their links to the dim past, and the effects of living a vertical life on the cliffs that have 
shaped their culture. Each clan of these halflings possesses unique attributes for living in 
the Jagged Cliffs. 

Since all of the accessories of life are produced by their ancient arts, even the tools 
and weapons used by the halflings are different, unique, and strange. This accessory 
describes the arcane practice of life-shaping and the organic creations formed through 
its implementation-aspects of an Athasian society never before encountered. The fol 
lowing passage from the journal of the life-shaper Loi Far-oneth describes the geo 
graphic area of the Jagged Cliffs, the strange climactic patterns there, and many of its 
unique features in detail. 

The Jagged Cliffs 

The cliffs on which we live mark the division of the highlands of the east and the low 
savanna of the west. Even in the days of old, when water dominated the world, the barbs 
of these cliffs rose above the waves-creating the island chain upon which we once lived. 

The Jagged Cliffs stretch upward from the base almost two miles in most places. If an 
ascent were to be made from the base to the very top, most of the journey would be up 
sheer, vertical cliff faces. Only occasionally would a ledge be found, and most are narrow, 
short, and unstable, ready to collapse if too much weight is placed upon them. 

Many of these rocky shelves, however, are large-large enough, in fact, to hold entire 
villages of my people. Some jut outward from hollows within the cliff wall, while others 
are the result of openings of large caves cleaving the sides of the cliffs. Such cliffs can be 
hundreds of feet wide and up to a mile long. 


5 


Occasionally, the cliffs are buffeted by winds blowing along their rocky faces, generally 
from north to south. The treacherous winds can be dangerous to climbers, but most of our 
villages are built in sheltered areas, safe from the deadly gales. 

Like the cliffs, the Misty Border also serves to separate the lowland savanna from the 
much higher tablelands to the east. The mist is generated by the large, mysterious swamp 
that lies at the base of the cliffs and seems to defy many of nature's true laws. We know 
that the swamp is the site of ancient and uncontrolled energies whose effects still shape 
and distort the way of things. We call these energies Rajaat's Curse, for reasons lost to 
antiquity-a curse they truly are, nevertheless. The effects are to be avoided at all costs, 
for many a cliff climber caught within the magic of the mists has been lost forever. 

Rising high into the atmosphere, the wall of mist is an effective barrier separating the 
two areas visually. It has also successfully discouraged most travel through it from either 
direction, although the Jagged Cliffs themselves are an even greater deterrent in that 
regard. Visibility within the mist ranges from 10 to 60 feet, and changes literally from 
minute to minute. Many of our villages are always within its bounds and those who live 
there have learned special methods of adapting. 

The mist consists of a thick, warm vapor that leaves a slippery residue on everything it 
touches as it rises into the air. When the wind blows, it is never enough to completely dis 
sipate the Misty Border, although it causes turbulent swirls and storms within its envelope. 
The mist from the swamp clearly is not a true part of our region's weather, but something 
outside of the normal climactic conditions that only occasionally interacts with the real 
forces of nature. 

The swamp at the base of the Jagged Cliffs is immense, seemingly endless, and swallows 
anything that enters. Its fetid stench often accompanies the mist as it rises unnaturally from 
the stagnant pools within the bog. Those more learned than me regarding these matters 
have suggested that the swamp does not contain nearly enough water to account for the 
wall of continual mist, but that only repeats what we already know-this marsh is an 
aberrant place of twisted nature. 

The swamp runs virtually the entire length of the Jagged Cliffs, stretching out 20 to 30 
miles from the base. It is comprised primarily of shallow pools and streams running 
through soggy marshlands of heavy vegetation. Hidden dangers, including quicksand and 
underwater drop-offs, are woefully frequent when journeying into the swamp. 

Although many of my people who dared to enter the swamp never returned, there are 
always brave adventurers seeking to learn its secrets. Explorers report that ruins can be 
found within the marsh, deep within the thick growths and permeated with the terrors of 
Rajaat's Curse. Horrible creatures of singular natures, born from a soup of fetid water, 
unwholesome soil, decaying plant life, and unknown energies make their homes in the 
swamp. Worse, these beasts sometimes leave their lairs to make their way up the cliff 
walls to get a taste of rhul-thaun flesh. 

Because of the high amount of moisture from the mist rising from the swamp, many 
plants find purchase amid the rocky crevices and ledges. The clusters of plant life growing 
on the cliffs' faces form thick, verdant, vertical forests. We send trained climbers to harvest 
these forests of fruit, roots, and other edible, usable plants. At one time we life-shapers 
were able to create enough food for all our people without having to gather plants or hunt 
animals, but those days, unfortunately, have long since passed. 

The vertical forests are also home to many animals and other creatures. Birds nest 
within the foliage, and climbing creatures use the shelter of the vegetation to make their 
hidden lairs. Many and varied are the beasts that call the cliffs home and some of them 
are quite dangerous. Sloths, air drakes, rocs, zhackals, and other creatures are found here. 
Those that don't live in the forests make their homes in the crevices and caves that dot the 
surface of the cliffs. None of these is as terrifying as those that rise from the swamp below 
to menace our villages. The dangers for my people are great, but there is nothing that can 
keep us from carrying on our beliefs and preserving the ways of our ancestors. 

Nothing. 

-From the Journal of Loi Far-oneth 


6 



selves are an 
intriguing phe 
nomenon. Two 
miles high in 
places, these 
cliffs are some 
of the most 
dramatic sights 
on all of 
Athas. A cloud 


CHAPTER 1: 

Children 


The 

Wanderer's 


Journal 


These so-called rhul-thaun 


are at the very least close 
cousins of the halflings 
with whom I have been 
familiar. Physically they 
are very similar - nimble, 
lithe, yet more muscular 
than they appear. All of 
them are climbers with 
exceptional skills-survival 
on these rocks demands 
mastery. 

The Jagged 
Cliffs them- 


of nearly per 
petual mist 
hangs like a 
barrier in front 
of the crags, 
rising unnatu 
rally from 
what the half- 
lings call the 
swamp far 
below. I have 


Hi 


story 



never made 

the journey to the bottom of the 
precipice, nor do I plan to make 
the trip. From their descriptions, it 
sounds as though that horrible, 
soggy place is the home to what we 
call nightmare beasts, cistern 
fiends, water drakes, bog waders, 
and other creatures of which I have 
no knowledge. The upper cliffs 
themselves are populated with 
monsters such as cha'thrang, tul'ks, 
mountain spiders, mastyrials, and 
gaj. The rhul-thaun cling to these 
cliffs, making 
their homes on 
the ledges and 


The rhul-thaun, the people of the cliffs, are living remnants of a bygone age. Their 
culture is based upon a period of time no longer spoken of even in the legends of 
the other races of Athas. Because of this, rhul-thaun society is unique in all the 
world. 

During the Blue Age, the rhulisti made Athas their own. They tamed the forces of 
nature and learned to work with the elements rather than struggling against them. 
The present-day rhul-thaun retain some of their ancestors' knowledge, although 
much of it is buried in the rituals and traditions that govern the halflings' society. 

There are many reasons why the rhul-thaun are different from the other halflings 
of Athas, and special in their own right compared to all of the races known to the 
Tyr Region. Physically and mentally, the rhul-thaun peculiarities are worth noting. 


Physiology 


among the ver 
tically growing 

forests spreading up the sides of the 
cliff. 

In the depths of my being I find 
this sort of life unappealing. Every 
moment these halflings dangle, 
nearly falling from an incompre 
hensible height. Every movement 
hides a threat of falling. They seem 
oblivious to vertigo, however and 
think of climbing as a human 
would think of walking. 


Strong of back and sturdy limbs, 
blackened hair and fair of skin, 
Nimble fingers grip the stone, 

I must face the cliffs alone. 

-Verse 


117 of the Cliffclimber's Chant 


Like all of the other major humanoid races of Athas, the rhul-thaun are the descen 
dants of the rhulisti. While all of the other races have changed and mutated radically, 
the rhul-thaun closely resemble the rhulisti in almost every respect. 

Like the feral halflings of the outside world, the rhul-thaun are short with wiry, 


7 



nimble bodies. The average height for rhul-thaun males is 3 feet, while females are 
an inch or two shorter. 

Light of bone and build, the physique of the people of the cliffs is sinewy and 
tough. Even with an abundance of water, however, their lives are still quite harsh, 
fostering a need for strong, sturdy bodies. Their skin is fairer than that of most 
Athasians and appears to be smooth and wrinkle-free throughout most of their lives. 
Their resilient musculature betrays little of the deterioration caused by time, and they 
are active even in old age. Rhul-thaun hair color is black or brown, but rare individu 
als are blond or, more rarely, red heads. A typical member of the race has virtually 
no body hair other than on his head. Facial hair is unknown to them (its presence on 
members of other races would probably cause them to believe that person to be an 
animalistic, monstrous, or barbaric individual). Eye color varies greatly, with green, 
gray, and brown being most common. 

Racial Abilities 

Halflings of the Jagged Cliffs do not have infravision or the sense to innately determine 
direction that halflings of other worlds have. Obviously, they are not divided into hair- 
foots, tallfellows, and stouts, and they do not gain any special starting languages. 

Unlike their Athasian halfling cousins, rhul-thaun ability scores are not greatly 
modified. Because of their small size, rhul-thaun subtract 1 from Strength scores, 
although their quick and nimble forms do grant them an additional point to initial 
Dexterity scores. The race's purity of mind and spirit and the unity they feel with liv 
ing things allows rhul-thaun characters to add 1 to initial Wisdom scores. 

Climbing: Because they have lived on the Jagged Cliffs since before records were 
kept, the rhul-thaun have developed an affinity with vertical thinking and position 
ing. This, combined with years of experience and training, enables them to excel at 
activities such as rock climbing. All rhul-thaun characters, regardless of class, begin 
with a base 80% chance to climb rocky inclines, rather than the 40% listed for 
unskilled climbers on Table 65 in the PHB. Furthermore, rhul-thaun thieves do not 
subtract 15% from the ability to climb walls as other Dark Sun campaign halflings 
must. (See the Age of Herns rule book in the campaign set.) 

Resistance to Poison: Like all halflings, rhul-thaun gain a +1 to their saving throws 
vs. poison for every 3% points of Constitution they have. They are a hearty people 
with an effective immune system. 

Resistance to Magic: Halflings are resistant to magic. Rhul-thaun in particular know 
nothing of magic-working and rarely develop the talent to use magic, except in the 
case of a rare cleric or druid. Add a +1 bonus to all saving throws against rods, 
staves, wands, and spells for every 3% points of Constitution. 

Surprise: Halflings can surprise their opponents when not wearing metal (something 
rhul-thaun would never do, even if it was available) and while alone (at least 90 feet 
away from any nonhalfling or nonelven companions). In such a situation, opponents 
must subtract -4 from their surprise rolls, unless the halfling has to open a door to 
reach them, in which case the penalty is -2. 

Hurled or Thrown Weapons: Like other halflings, rhul-thaun have a predilection for 
thrown and hurled weapons. Attack rolls made by halflings using these weapons gain 
a +1 bonus. Rhul-thaun children make a sport of throwing stones, often with great 
accuracy. 

Stages of Life 

A rhul-thaun proverb states that "age is a measurement of experience, not an assur 
ance of ability." These halflings do not judge an individual by his age unless he is 
obviously very young (and therefore inexperienced) or very old (and deserving of 
respect), It is difficult to tell the age of the rhul-thaun by appearance alone. Not only 


8 


does the skin of the halflings remain relatively smooth and unblemished throughout 
their lives, but most healthy members of the race remain active and spry until death. 

Rhul-thaun live 150 years, longer than halflings of the Tyr Region. Their environ 
ment is a healthy one, and most individuals live full, hearty lives. 

Birth and Childhood: Smatterings of biological knowledge left over from the rhulisti 
remain within the birthing rituals of the rhul-thaun. Because of these practices, 
greater numbers of halfling children (and mothers) survive the birth process than 
those of other Athasian races. 

Children are given birth names immediately. Names are determined in a special 
naming ritual known as the rhin-noss, the Rite of Beginning. This ritual involves ran 
dom elements in the form of ceramic bits inscribed with the names of the child's 
ancestors. The names carry both literal meanings and symbology based on the deeds 

of the ancestor whose name is recalled. At the end of the ritual, the shards are 

shaken in the mother's hands and cast to the ground. The baby is placed near the 
cluster and the first piece the child touches bares his or her birth-name. 

Young children are cared for by their parents, older siblings, and the rest of the 
clan's extended family. Early on they learn the importance of family ties, as they are 
forced to rely on so many members of their families to instruct and care for them. 

Adolescence: At age 10, rhul-thaun children are expected to begin studying a voca 
tion. At this age, they begin learning important skills that will help them in their 
lives, the first being rock climbing. Young halflings also begin learning the details of 
rhul-thaun rituals and are expected to know and take part in many of them. 

Males and females are instructed in the same ways regarding the same things. No 

duties, roles, or professions are regarded as solely belonging to one gender or the 
other. Training begins with general studies including: history, biology, and philoso 
phy. Then, as the children mature, they begin to make their way along the path 
toward their desired professions. Skills such as literacy, mathematics, and physics are 
common, but not everyone is taught them. 

Over the next 10 years, the young halflings not only learn a great deal, but their 
aptitude is measured by those who teach them. Those who seem to possess special 
qualities (for example, those that befit a life-shaper or a priest-see Chapter 5) are 
rigorously tested. When young individuals are found who meet the rigorous stan 
dards of the special field (as judged by those already within that field), they are 
apprenticed to appropriate older, more experienced halflings. 

Adulthood: Age 20 is generally considered the point of adulthood among the half 
lings of the Jagged Cliffs. By this time an individual is fully-grown, and his personal 
ity is fully developed. Training should be finished at this point and any good halfling 
should be ready to enter society as an adult member of the clan. 

The ritual of adulthood usually occurs on the young person's 20th birthday. This 
formality is more of a ceremony than an actual "rite of passage" and it is not some 
thing that can be failed. During the ritual, an individual's name can be changed if 
that is desired. This occurs frequently, especially when the name chosen at the Rite of 
Beginning has become inappropriate to describe the adult individual's nature. 

Adulthood brings with it certain rights. An adult has the right to make a case 
before the clan's har-etuil, or judgment makers (see Chapter 3). Such an action 
requires learning the proper rituals, but is necessary when appealing against an injus 
tice or airing a personal grievance with another individual. Adult rhul-thaun can 
even speak before the Conclave (a gathering of har-etuil) in order to present an issue 
regarding their clan's well-being (although this is generally the job of the clan's own 
har-etuil). 

Adults can also own property, marry, and conduct formal economic transactions. 

Middle Age: Around age 60, a rhul-thaun begins to feel the work of time on his body. 
Although there is little change in appearance, strength and endurance diminish at 
this stage of life. Most individuals, however, refuse to allow these effects to stop them 
from continuing with their duties or work. What they lack in physical abilities they 
more than make up for in experience and wisdom gained over the years. 


9 


Rajaat's Curse 

Deformities among the rhul- 
thaun, indeed even diseases that 
have no visible causes, are 
always ascribed to "Rajaat's 
Curse." Rajaat (whose name and 
legend survives only in the curse) 
was responsible for the discovery 
of magic on Athas. At the time he 
conducted his experiments, he 
was, as yet, ignorant of the forces 
he was trying to control. When 
he pried into the dark side of 
nature, he unleashed destructive, 
negative energies-energies that 
turned a lush forest into a dismal 
swamp, energies that corrupted 
the life forms of the forest into 
things better left to tellings by 
campfires than encountered in 
the flesh. 

Those afflicted with Rajaat's 
Curse are treated by the rhul- 
thaun as belonging to the myster 
ies of the swamp and shunned. 
Others who encounter these tor 
mented halflings can sense 
something malignant about 
them, even if the mutation is not 
readily apparent, and leave them 
alone. 


It is at this age that many rhul-thaun take on training and teaching duties, instruct 
ing the young in rituals, reading and writing, and professional skills. Teaching is con 
sidered an honored position, well-respected and rewarding. Subtract 1 point from 
Strength and Constitution but add 1 point to Intelligence and Wisdom. 

Old Age: At the age of 90, a rhul-thaun is considered to be old. At this point, many 
individuals strive to become clan leaders, while others are content to settle in with 
their families, assuming the honored role of family elders. 

Those who reach this stage of life are exalted by their families and acquaintances. 
Theirs are the best rooms of rhul-thaun homes. They are the first served at mealtime 
and the first heard at tale-telling time. 

Disease takes a heavy toll on halflings of advanced age. Limbs are not as quick 
and fingers not as nimble as they once were. Strength and constitution drain away, 
leaving a still-sharp mind in a weakened frame. Rarely do rhul-thaun of this age 
climb the cliffs or ride the wind. Subtract 2 points from Strength and Dexterity and 1 
point from Constitution; Add 1 point to Wisdom. 

Venerable Age: Any age beyond 120 is ancient to the rhul-thaun, although many live 
as long as 150 years. These individuals gain the most respect, for the people of the 
cliffs see life as a valuable treasure. Long life is viewed as a great blessing and a 
reward for living well. Their wisdom is often sought out to settle matters of impor 
tance, and even the judgement makers consult the wisdom of the venerable elderly. 

Even those unacquainted with these halflings can recognize the ravages of time 
upon people of this age. Old, worn flesh becomes leathery and wrinkled, backs 
begin to curve, and hair whitens. Subtract 1 point from Strength, Dexterity, and 
Constitution and add 1 point to Intelligence and Wisdom. 



Occasionally, a child is born who displays marked differences from its parents or any 
of the other members of the race. These "mutations" are a result of the close proxim 
ity of the swamp at the base of the cliffs. Because of the force known as Rajaat's 
Curse, the rhul-thaun are more susceptible to mutation than other races. Their vulner 
ability lies in the inheritance of the mutable nature of the rhulisti, from whom they 
are directly descended. During the Rebirth (see Chapter 2), when the rhulisti were 
altered into the various races of Athas, the newly changed breeds were intentionally 
made to be stable, while the stock race kept its mutability. The rhul-thaun retain this 
quality to a degree, and they occasionally find themselves changed by what they 
regard as the evil energies of the swamp. 

The changes are usually minor, causing slight alterations in build or coloring. 
Individuals affected in this way can reach a height of 4 feet 6 inches; others have a 
tendency toward obesity or multiple or disproportionate limbs. Those whose alter 
ations involve color have skin, hair, or eyes with bluish or greenish tints. 


10 



Major changes are rarer still but can literally include any sort of variation. Extra limbs, 
bizarre facial configurations, internal organ modifications, prodigious strength, and 
remarkable dexterity are just a few mutations that have been documented in the past. 

The base chance of any mutation is 1%, and 90% of all of these changes are minor 
in nature (many so minor they are not even noticeable). The remaining 10% of those 
altered are changed in a major way. There is no limit to the extent of a major change, 
but if a simple random die roll is needed to determine the nature of the mutation, 
use the following table. 


Rhul-Thaun Major Mutation Table 

Roll Mutation 


1-8 Extra limb (random type, only 30% are usable) 

9-15 Missing or deformed facial feature 

16-20 Enhanced muscles and bones; add 1d4 to Strength 

21-25 Strengthened heart and internal organs; add 1d4 to Constitution 

26-30 Flexible bones and enhanced nervous system; add 1d4 to Dexterity 

31-38 Improved eyes; increase visual range by x2 

39-46 Improved ears; increase audio range by x2 

47-57 Improved eyes; provide 60-foot infravision 

58-65 Leathery skin; provide natural AC 8 

66-73 Improved muscles and tendons; allow 15-foot leaps 

74-80 Primitive gills; allow underwater breathing for 1 hour per day 

81-86 Altered immune system; provide immunity to disease 

87-92 Altered internal systems; +4 resistance to poison 

93-96 Roll twice, ignoring rolls over 92 

97-00 DM's option 


Any character who has a visible or discovered mutation suffers a reaction roll modifi 
cation of -4 when encountering other rhul-thaun, since they will recognize such a 
character as infected with Rajaat's Curse. Reactions from other races are at -2. 


11 








Psychology 

Sing to me gently, rising wind, 
and carry me where I will. 

Every thought now given flight, 
life-wine flows through my ride. 

My focus fast upon my task 
the powers of life to guide me. 

I have the will to stay my creed 
let none my way impede! 

-The Mantra of the Windrider 

The psychology of the rhul-thaun is different from other races, and shows a marked 
separation even from other halflings. This stems from their unique environment and 
their links to the halflings of old-links that are much stronger than those of other 
Athasian races. 

Rhul-thaun views of life, of family, and of the world around them have all been 
heavily influenced by these two factors. 

World View 

The rhul-thaun look upon the world much as the rhulisti did. This means that to the 
people of the cliffs, all life is sacred, and nature is a force to be respected. So 
extreme have these notions become that most rhul-thaun venerate the elements as 
unknowable and uncontrollable forces. 

They also know that in nature all things serve a purpose, and therefore try to find 
their own purpose in life and in relationship to the rest of the world. This is as true 
for individuals as it is for the people of the clans. 

Rituals 

As they look upon the random, indomitable forces inherent in the world, the rhul- 
thaun seek at least a thin veneer of reason to give the appearance of control. To 
accomplish this, and to preserve what was left of their ancestors' knowledge, they 
devised a complex set of rituals, one for virtually every conceivable event and activ 
ity in their lives. Birth, marriage, and death rites are found in most societies, but the 
rhul-thaun make formal ceremonies of greeting, meals, dressing, trade, war, dance, 
and all aspects of life requiring relationships with others. 

The repetition of familiar rituals gives them the assurance that they are imposing 
order on chaos and allows them to conceal their own feelings, hidden behind the 
mask that formality provides. 

Religion 

Despite their universal passion for ritual, and like all other inhabitants of Athas, the 
rhul-thaun know no gods. While nature is revered and respected, the rhul-thaun sel 
dom worship its attributes-except for a rare few. These individuals follow the paths 
of the elemental priests who pay homage to the power of the forces of earth, air, and 
water-fire is forbidden. 

The halflings see earth as solid, steady, and dependable. Climbers in particular rec 
ognize the importance of earth and rock. It is their source of safety and assurance as 
they scale the tremendous heights of the cliffs. Of the three, however, earth has the 
fewest number of devotees in a culture that has little religious fervor. 

The importance of air is clear, for it is the bringer of storms and wind to the cliffs. 
Air is the medium of the mists that suffuse their lives. Furthermore, air carries the 
windriders to their destinations and brings them home again. 

Water is the source of life. It represents all organic matter, including the life-shaped 
creations so vital to the rhul-thaun. Though not as scarce as it is on the rest of Athas, 
water is a sacred thing to the halflings of the Jagged Cliffs. 

Fire, alone of the elements, is forbidden as an object of veneration. The rhul-thaun 


12 


view fire as a destroyer, a killer. There may be a few hidden, criminal sects of rhul- 
thaunian fire priests, but they are very uncommon. 

Some venerate the memory and promises of High Lord Rhan Thes-onel. Indeed, he 
has become a minor deity of a sort. They wait for his return with the fanatical assur 
ance that he will bring with him a purpose for his people. Most realize that no half- 
ling could live long enough for Rhan to still be alive, but they speculate that his 
coming will be in the form of a spirit, a vision, or a sign of some mystical nature. 

Magic 

Wizardly magic remains an unknown quantity among the rhul-thaun. Their culture 
entered its cloistered isolation before the power of sorcery was developed. The vast 
majority of rhul-thaun continue to be completely ignorant of the power of magic, its 
effects, and its practitioners. It is not that they actively disbelieve in magic, they are 
merely ignorant of it-the words wizard and magic are not even in their language. 

What they do recognize is the energy that emanates from the swamp at the base of 
their precipices. Referred to as Rajaat's Curse, it is a source of fear and mystery 
among the halflings of the cliffs. They certainly do not know enough about magic to 
realize that the same power that creates Rajaat's Curse can be used to allow others to 
cast memorized spells that produce effects of both good and evil. 

When they experience the power of magic, their response is to react with horror. 
The more stalwart occasionally attempt to explain the process through concepts they 
can understand or at least are aware of, such as psionics. These attempts are usually 
met with frank stares of disbelief. 

Psionics 

Compared to their appreciation of magic, rhul-thaunian understanding of psionics is 
tremendous. But when weighed against most of the other intelligent races of Athas, 
however, the halflings of the cliffs lack a true grasp of the nature and power of the 
Way. They have long recognized its existence and many individuals have displayed 
natural mental powers in their own culture. (Some rhul-thaun have extraordinary 
wild talents, but most touched by the Way simply have defense modes or other abili 
ties that are not dramatically obvious.) 

Because its origins do not lie with the ancient halflings of the Blue Age, however, 
the rhul-thaun do not regard psionics very highly. In fact psionic ability is seen as a 
taint rather than a blessing and the use of an ability is considered to be in poor taste. 
Those halflings with powers learn to use them subtly, when alone, or not at all. Those 
with known psionic talents are looked upon as contaminated by the "pure" rhul- 
thaunians. 

None of these halflings have ever thought therefore, that psionics could be some 
thing to be manipulated or focused into a far greater source of power. None have 
ever done an in-depth study of the nature of psionics or learned the secrets of the 
Way-most likely, none ever will. 

Clothing and Fashion 

Using the ritualized arts of life-shaping, the rhul-thaun organically produce clothing 
from creatures created specifically to shed their own skins, spin silky excretions, or 
grow fine coats to be sheared. Thus, rhul-thaun clothing appears to be made of fine, 
beautiful cloth, wool, and leather, though it truly is none of these. 

Each rhul-thaun clan has its color or colors to represent it. At official functions and 
on special holidays, the members of the various halfling clans are expected to wear 
their colors to show clan affiliation and pride. At other times, however, everyone is 
free to wear whatever they choose. Even the lawkeepers do not wear uniforms, sport 
ing only identifying cosmetic graft patches. 

Males usually wear their hair long, allowing their tangled locks to flow freely. 
Females wear their hair cropped short in most instances. Both sexes often dye part or 
all of their hair-often in unnatural colors with dyes organically produced by life- 


13 


shaped creatures. Clan preferences are observed in these fashions, so many times it 
is possible for those who know to identify someone's clan affiliation by simply look 
ing at his hair color and style. 

The rhul-thaun also frequently use patterned face and body paint to individualize 
their identities and many of them alter the patterns on a daily basis. The designs for 
body painting vary from very simple starbursts to complex series of symbols, heavy 
with cultural meaning and significance. These motifs are based on individual prefer 
ence rather than clan fashion, so personal details, including history, tendencies, taste, 
and even mood can be understood by observing rhul-thaunian body paint. 

Obviously, grooming is an important part of this society and a great deal of time 
each morning is spent dealing with cosmetic effects. Personal appearance is a very 
serious matter among the rhul-thaun and even the most unrefined individuals recog 
nize its importance. Grooming time is not considered frivolous and those who main 
tain a seriously crafted look are not thought of as vain. In fact, the notion of vanity is 
not found in rhul-thaun culture. 

Feral Halflings 

Environment and circumstance mold and shape individuals and even entire peoples. 
The halflings of the Tyr Region and beyond are also descendants of the rhulisti. 
Nevertheless, the conditions in which the feral halflings found themselves changed 
them into wild, nearly uncivilized savages. Except for size and relative build, new 
comers to the Jagged Cliffs will notice virtually no similarities between the rhul-thaun 
and the familiar halflings of the Tyr Region. 

Halflings from the outside world who encounter the rhul-thaun find the experience 
unsettling. Despite many similarities, the two groups have very little in common 
when it comes to their fundamental philosophies of life. Isolated, recalling their great 
past, the rhul-thaun respect nothing more than life and are loathe to destroy it. But 
the feral halflings, whose history has devolved to legend and whose culture has been 
corrupted over the years by neighboring cultures, look upon every living thing as a 
potential source of food. 

Creating Rhul-Thaun Characters 

If a player wants to play a character with interesting role-playing challenges and a 
very different background from his fellows, a rhul-thaun character is a good possibil 
ity. Such a PC would carry out ritualized activities that others would regard as odd 
and possibly silly; would look at taking life, the forces of nature, and even something 
as simple as horizontal distances in a different way, and possess useful skills not 
available to other PCs. A rhul-thaun character might also possess life-shaped equip 
ment, providing a new look, feel, and a number of different options for the party. 

Players wishing to create halfling characters who hail from the Jagged Cliffs should 
consult the Dungeon Master. These characters may be privy to information regarding 
Athas's history and this new territory that other PCs from the Tyr Region would not 
have. A DM may not want to allow this option to players. It may also be difficult to 
justify adding a rhul-thaun player character to a standard Dark Sun campaign. 

The best way to integrate a rhul-thaun into an adventuring party is to have them 
visit the Jagged Cliffs and befriend one of the halflings there. Many of the rhul-thaun 
are curious to discover what lies beyond their ledges, so a halfling PC may certainly 
accompany a party wherever its adventures take them. Chapter 5 contains rules for 
operating life-shaped creations beyond the boundaries of the Jagged Cliffs region if a 
rhul-thaun character plans to take any organic equipment with him. 

Alternatively, DMs may wish to have a campaign in which all of the PCs are rhul- 
thaun, as a group of climbers, windriders, or even halfling explorers of the thri-kreen 
savanna. Even if the DM plans on using the Jagged Cliffs and the rhul-thaun culture 
as a setting for an existing Dark Sun campaign territory for PCs to explore, the fol 
lowing section should be studied in order to create halfling NPCs. 


14 


Character Class 

Except as noted here, all aspects of character creation are the same as those in the 
Dark Sun rule book. The following rules apply only to rhul-thaun characters regard 
ing character class: 

Warriors: Most halflings are of the warrior class but halflings of the Jagged Cliffs 
are not permitted to be gladiators. While not lacking in courage, the value their 
culture places on life prevents them from inventing or taking part in games in 
which people are actually injured. There are few halfling rangers. 

* Priests: Priests are infrequent among the halflings of the Jagged Cliffs, but they 
do exist. Rhul-thaun characters can be elemental priests. The elements of earth, 
air, and water are revered, but priests of elemental fire and their beliefs are for 
bidden. 

Druids are even scarcer than priests. Those that do exist seclude themselves 
within the vertical forests dotting the sides of the cliffs. None of them, however, 
attempt to preserve the swamp below, for it is tainted by Rajaat's ancient magic 
and no longer a true creature of nature. 

Rogues: A great many halflings focus their natural dexterity, quickness, and 
inbred climbing ability and become rogues. Not all of them devote their lives to 
crime and dishonesty, however. Many members of the thief class use their abili 
ties to become professional climbers, scouts, and spies. Even windriders find 
their skills useful. 

Because of their isolation, rhul-thaun traders and traveling minstrels are 
extremely rare. But on the cliffs, the rhul-thaun have their own entertainers, and 
windancers are prized performers. 

• Psionicists: Like all intelligent beings on Athas, the rhul-thaun have psionic 
potential and many possess wild talents. Most common halflings own simple 
defensive and subtle abilities, though a few individuals can wield dramatic, fear 
some powers. 

Since psionic powers were not among the abilities of the ancient rhulisti, most 
halflings of the Jagged Cliffs think of them as uncouth, distasteful, and suspect. 
Even those halflings who possess great powers are socially constrained to sup 
press them, at least in public. Individuals with psionic abilities are viewed as 
tainted, lesser beings. 


Rhul-Thaun Class Level Limits Table 
Class Level Limit 

Bard N/A 

Cleric 12 

Defiler N/A 

Druid 16 

Fighter 12 

Preserver N/A 

Psionicist N/A 

Ranger 16 

Trader N/A 

Thief 16 


New Proficiencies 

All of the following nonweapon proficiencies are specific to the peoples of the cliffs. 
No character who is not a rhul-thaun should have access to these skills without a 
teacher from the Jagged Cliffs region who is at least a journeyman in the proficiency. 

These proficiencies should be treated as general category proficiencies, available to 
any class. 


IS 


* Cliff Fighting: The ability to fight, maneuver, and evade while standing on or clinging 
to the narrow ledges of the sides of the cliffs are necessary survival skills for half- 
lings. The cliff fighting proficiency not only negates penalties normally accrued in 
these critical situations, but gives the proficient a +1 bonus to attack rolls and a +2 
bonus to damage rolls when fighting on cliff faces and ledges. These modifiers only 
apply when the combat has vertical aspects and there is a chance of falling. For 
example, a halfling could use these modifiers clinging to a narrow ledge and attack 
ing a foe on the ledge above him, or standing at the edge of a large, rocky shelf and 
throwing spears at enemies thronging below him. It would not apply faced against a 
thri-kreen foe in a desert oasis or fighting in the back alleys of a sorcerer-king's city- 
state-unless climbing walls .... This skill takes into account the rhul-thaun's nat 
ural, vertical orientation and can never be mastered by other races. 

* Life-Shaping: This is a very specialized skill that is difficult to learn and harder to 
master. It includes all of the rituals needed to create common life-shaped crea 
tures. It also entails the ability to repair damaged creations. Only life-shapers 
possess this knowledge (it is forbidden to tenders) and it is virtually impossible 
for someone outside of that highly structured guild to learn this craft. 

* Ritual Knowledge: All rhul-thaun characters have this proficiency. It includes the 
basics of all of the rituals upon which the rhul-thaun society is based. It would 
be impossible for a halfling of the cliffs to function in his own culture without 
this skill. Outsiders may be taught ritual knowledge so that they too can operate 
within this ancient society without seeming barbaric or uncultured. 

* Tending: With this ability, a character is able to adequately care for a life-shaped 
creation. This includes the knowledge of what the creation needs for sustenance, 
preferable temperatures and humidity, and other specifics necessary for the life 
of the life-shaped creature. 



1 6 



Windancing: This skill is not so much taught as it is inherent. Those with inborn 
grace and agility begin to practice at an early age, imitating the graceful win- 
dancers flitting above their roofs. Sometimes practice in the art begins even 
before one's life's work is chosen, but dancing up the vertical is not for everyone. 

• Windriding: This is a very specialized skill that allows one to control a flying 
mount within the constantly challenging climactic conditions of the Jagged Cliffs. 
This includes operating in high winds, dealing with the mist, flying near the cliff 
faces, and maneuvering on a creature while hovering (in order to harvest plants, 
fire a missile weapon at prey, and so on). 

Social Status 

To determine the social status of the character, based on the family that he was born 

into, roll 1d8 and 1 dl2 together and consult the following table: 


Social Status Table 


1d8 & 1d12 

2 

3-5 

6-12 

13-19 

20 


Status 

Very Low 
Low 

Average 

High 

Very High 


The result of the die roll determines the starting wealth of beginning characters as 
well as their place in rhul-thaun society. 

Very Low social status suggests that the character literally grew up "on the streets" 
or in the wild. While such characters may be self-sufficient and capable, they are 
very poor and looked down upon by almost all other members of society. Their 
appearance is generally shoddy, at least at first (dirt and grime cake their faces and 
their clothing is torn and filthy) and so their Charisma scores are reduced by 2 until 
they get a chance to wash themselves and their clothes. These characters subtract 
1d8 from their starting money roll. This means that they could start with no money at 
all-unfortunate, but all too common. Their only chance to purchase equipment or 
food honestly is through barter for their labor. DMs are encouraged to give characters 
their choice of a single item from a select list with which to begin. 

Low social status indicates that the character is from an impoverished background, 
but not to the degree of the very low die roll result. These characters grew up in the 
poorer sections of a city or village, which are generally the lower sections. They and 
their families usually hold menial jobs requiring greater amounts of manual labor. 
Many criminals are members of this social class. If a character is determined to be of 
low social status, 1d4 is subtracted from his starting money roll. 

Characters of Average social status are the most common people in rhul-thaun 
society. These sturdy folk make up most of the ranks of the windriders, climbers, ten 
ders, merchants, and other major occupations. They have no modification on their 
starting money roll. 

High social status characters live in the upper reaches of communities and come 
from wealthier backgrounds. These people make up much of the life-shaper ranks 
(although these can come from any class) and are also merchants, windriders, and 
other professionals. High social status characters can also be involved in organized 
crime. These characters add 1d8 to their starting money die roll. 

Very High social status characters live in the highest towers of their communities 
and generally occupy themselves with only the most respected and prestigious occu 
pations. Some Very High status characters will be related to har-etuil or even admin 
istrators. Such characters add 2d8 to their starting money die roll. 


17 


Starting Money and Equipment 

When all other aspects of character creation are finished, players must equip their 
rhul-thaun characters for their adventuring careers. To do this, each character must 
begin the game with a certain amount of money. This amount is determined by 
rolling 5d4. The result of this die roll is then modified by social status. Finally, the 
total is multiplied by 30. The result is the number of rhul-thaun coins, called ghav- 
egoths, that a character has at the beginning of the game. 

Character Kits 

The following kits are specific to the halflings of the Jagged Cliffs. The use of these 
kits is optional, and players should always discuss creating a character using a kit 
with the Dungeon Master. 

Kit Descriptions 

Each character kit presented here is described and detailed individually, with an 
overview presented at the beginning of each section. In addition, each kit is also 
described with the following criteria: 

Role: Every rhul-thaun pays particular attention to how he fits into society and the 
world. This section reveals the roles that those characters created with the kit would 
play in the total scheme of things. 

Weapon Proficiencies: Certain kits may require a character to take particular weapon 
proficiencies. These proficiencies are acquired normally. 

Nonweapon Proficiencies: Some of the kits may also require that a character possess 
particular nonweapon proficiencies. Bonus proficiencies are gained automatically and 
are free. Required proficiencies are gained normally and must be taken. Recommended 
proficiencies are optional (but useful and appropriate to the kit) and are gained nor 
mally. If a recommended proficiency comes from a group not listed for the character's 
class, the proficiency costs one additional slot (unless the specific kit states otherwise). 

Equipment: Some kits impose restrictions concerning a character's use of equipment 
and these are presented here. Other kits may allow characters who use the kit to 
begin the game with certain items. This section also describes these benefits. 

Special Benefits: Every kit has advantages that make it worth dealing with the restric 
tions and mandatory proficiencies. These benefits are presented here and vary greatly 
from kit to kit. 

Special Hindrances: Some kits have drawbacks peculiar to them, these restrictions 
are presented in this section. 

Wealth: Modifications to starting money roll (see above) because of specific kits are 
given here. 

Chahn Terrorist (Warrior) 

The Chahn are young radicals who seek to overthrow rhul-thaun society, leadership, 
and traditions. They reject the ancient precepts on which rhul-thaun society is 
founded: ritual, clans, and most importantly, the isolationist policy of staying on the 
cliffs. They do not see themselves as terrorists but rather as freedom fighters strug 
gling against the forces of stagnation and oppression. They want the rhul-thaun to 
forget the ways, beliefs, and taboos of the past and progress into the future. Chahn 
want to explore the outside world to see for themselves what has happened in the 
thousands of years that have passed since their separation from the rhulisti. 


18 


Some of these halflings do not believe that violent means are the way to effect 

change. These are not the evil, murderous individuals most people think of when 

they reflect on the Chahn. Nevertheless, they believe that action must be taken to 
stimulate a stagnant society and that change is necessary for the rhul-thaun to thrive 
in this harsh world. 

Most Dungeon Masters will probably want this kit to stay out of the hands of play 
ers, restricting its use to NPCs. It may be that such a fanatical character would not fit 
in well with a party of adventurers. A DM who wishes to involve the PCs in the polit 
ical intrigues of the rhul-thaun, may encourage one or more players to secretly create 
characters with Chahn affiliation unknown to the other players. Another option is to 
have all of the player characters play Chahn agents, involving the adventurers in 
"freedom fighting" missions. 

It is important to note that not all members of the Chahn use this kit. In particular, 

thieves and even a few priests belong to this group. 

Role: The Chahn are criminals, wanted by the lawkeepers for their terrorist acts and 
radical beliefs. Even though not all Chahn members believe in violent or evil action 
to achieve their goals, they are all implicated by their association with those who 
have no such reservations. 

Weapon Proficiencies: Characters using this kit must take dagger and garrotte as pro 
ficiencies; these are easily concealed weapons. 

Nonweapon Proficiencies: The proficiencies for the Chahn members are as follows. 

Bonus Proficiencies: Forgery. 

Required Proficiencies: Weapon improvisation. 

Recommended Proficiencies: Local history, sign language, cliff fighting. 

Equipment: Chahn receive an organic knife, organic mace, or an armblade. 

Special Benefits: Because of their fanatical beliefs, Chahn receive a +1 bonus on 
attack rolls, proficiency checks, and saving throws when performing actions they 
believe will help overthrow the current social order. Furthermore, their contacts with 
other Chahn members give them access to equipment, information, and favors if per 
forming a task for the organization (DM's discretion). 

Special Hindrances: Chahn fanaticism causes other rhul-thaun to subtract 2 on all 
reaction rolls against the character if the Chahn affiliation is known. 

Wealth: Chahn have no modifications to their starting money. 

Climber (Warrior/Rogue) 

This kit is for multiclassed warrior/rogue halflings. Climbers are those who make their 
living by scaling the cliff walls and crossing the distances between the villages found 
on the ledges. They often use ropes, spikes, and harnesses, but are also skilled at 
climbing without relying on such equipment. 

Although not all climbers are alike, they are generally self-sufficient and some even 
take this self-reliance to the extreme and become overconfident. Although a climber 
could easily be a part of an adventuring party (for adventures on the cliffs a climber 
is necessary), they generally stick together. Some work in small groups, and nearly all 
fraternize with other climbers when not working. Many settlements have safehomes 
(rhul-thaun taverns and inns) that cater specifically to climbers and their generally 
rough tastes. 

Role: Climbers provide a vital role in rhul-thaun society, and most people regard 
them as rough, rugged, and extremely capable. 

Weapon Proficiencies: Climbers never use heavy or unwieldy weapons, therefore 
starting out with a proficiency in either dagger or spine thrower. 

19 


Nonweapon Proficiencies: The proficiencies for the climber are as follows. 

Bonus Proficiencies: Mountaineering. 

Required Proficiencies: Direction sense, rope use, cliff fighting. 

Recommended Proficiencies: Tightrope walking, jumping, survival, hunting, at 
least one more slot of mountaineering. 

Equipment: Every climber starts out with the tools of his trade: 200 feet of organic 
rope, 10 organic climbing spikes, an organic mallet, and a grasping hook. 

Special Benefits: Climbers can climb safely (using either their climbing ability or 
mountaineering proficiency) at twice the normal speed for 1 minute per Constitution 
point. Because of special packing techniques, climbers carry 150% of their normal 
weight allowance without becoming encumbered. 

Special Hindrances: Climbers are so adapted to a vertical environment that they 
sometimes have problems with horizontal distances. Reduce ranges on all missile 
weapons by 25% for those using this kit. 

Wealth: Normally, beginning climbers must invest their money in equipment. Reduce 
the starting money roll by 1d4 for climbers, they are sure to earn it back tenfold in 
no time. 

Windancer (Rogue) 

Windancing is an art form that combines dance and acrobatics into one graceful, 
athletic frolic between the spires and up the walls of the cliff towns. Windancers 
seem to sail up, and up, and up at heart-stopping speeds, tumbling, hands hardly 
touching stair rails; leaping, feet skimming over bridge supports, and always, always, 
climbing toward the stone-covered sky. These are the ones wealthy merchants some 
times hear tap-dancing above them in their pinnacle homes. 

Windancing is lucrative as well, for when they finally return to earth they find that 
respect for their skills has been paid in full coffers of contributions. They also take on 
less savory assignments if the price is right and individual ethics permit. 

Role: Every society has its artists, bards, and rogues. The rhul-thaun have windancers. 
These performers are self-taught, though occasionally an experienced artist takes on 
a promising amateur in an informal apprenticeship. 

These masters of the ceilings play to the crowds at festivals, special occasions, or 
whenever they feel like it. 

Weapon Proficiencies: Like climbers, windancers shy away from heavy weapons for 
practical reasons, starting out with a proficiency in either dagger or spine thrower. 

Nonweapon Proficiencies: Windancer proficiencies are as follows: 

Bonus Proficiencies: Mountaineering and dancing. 

Required Proficiencies: Direction sense, tightrope walking, and tumbling. 
Recommended Proficiencies: artistic ability, jumping, and juggling. 

Equipment: Windancers begin their practice with two organic grasping hooks and 
two quick-release suction gauntlets specially designed to hold smooth surfaces. 

Special Benefits: Windancers climb walls and dance over bridges at three times nor 
mal speed, safely, for 2 minutes per Constitution point. They also receive a +10% 
bonus to move silently and a +5% to hide in shadows. 

Special Hindrances: because of their need to remain as unencumbered as possible, 
they can carry only 50% of their normal weight allowance. 

The windancers' working environment, while vertical, is one unexposed to 
weather, hostile creatures, or the Misty Border. When forced to operate in exposed 
conditions, all bonuses return to normal. 


20 


Wealth: Windancers must first invest in their equipment. Subtract 1d6 from starting 
funds. Windancers are very much appreciated on the cliffs and a first-time perfor 
mance collection should return at least 10 times the cost of the starting equipment. 

Windriders (Rogue) 

There is no more enviable position in rhul-thaun society than that of the riders of the 
wind. Soaring the skies on the back of a steed specifically designed and grown to 
serve its master and maneuver within the restrictions of the cliffs and mist is the 
dream of most young halflings. 

Windriders are carefully trained and highly talented. Mounted hunters, harvesters, 
and couriers, these individuals are capable, daring, and flamboyant. They are the 
swashbucklers of the Jagged Cliffs. 

There is no reason why windriders could not be a part of an adventuring party, 
although most of their talents would not be put to use in ground adventures. Still, 
one cannot ride the wind all the time and most riders' flamboyant natures stay with 
them even when on the ground. 

Role: Like climbers, windriders fill an important niche in rhul-thaun society. They are 
envied and respected by virtually all members of their culture. 

Weapon Proficiencies: A windrider's first weapon proficiency must be a missile 
weapon. 

Nonweapon Proficiencies: The proficiencies of the windrider are as follows. 

Bonus Proficiencies: Windriding. 

Required Proficiencies: Riding, airborne. 

Recommended Proficiencies: Weather sense, direction sense, hunting. 

Equipment: Windriders rarely own their own mounts. They begin with no special 
equipment. 

Special Benefits: Windriders operate on the backs of airborne mounts with no penal 
ties. They receive a +2 modifier to reaction rolls, and can usually find free food and 
shelter at an air temple (if one can be found). The priests of the air temple in 
Thamasku treat windriders as special holy men and women. 

Special Hindrances: Windriders may never develop a proficiency in riding land- 
based animals. 

Wealth: Windriders receive a bonus of 1d6 to their starting money. Unlike climbers, 
they have no equipment to buy, and, in fact, are usually given great gifts by wealthy 
patrons when they officially become windriders (in the hope that they will later give the 
patrons discounts or favors-a windrider is a good friend to have on the Jagged Cliffs). 

Adventuring on the Jagged Cliffs 

Adventures in the Jagged Cliffs with the rhul-thaun will encounter conditions not 
usually faced on Athas. The following information should be kept in mind when 
designing adventures for the Jagged Cliffs. 

Operating in the Mist 

The base of the cliffs acts as a natural drain, collecting run off from the highlands 
and water emptying from the western lowlands. Hot springs, open lava tubes, and 
magma pools heat the water, producing clouds of steam that rise to the top of the 
rock wall and create the Misty Border. This is where the mist is thickest (100% of the 
time), visibility is always 1d6 feet during the day and 0 at night. Artificial light in the 
form of torches or life-shaped bioluminescence is always restricted to a maximum 


21 


equal to the daytime visibility range. 

Two factors come into play when dealing with the mist. The first and most obvious 
is the lack of visibility. There is a 90% chance each day that the mists are thick and 
billowy anywhere on the Jagged Cliffs. This means that visibility is restricted to 
1d6x10 feet during the day and 1d4 feet at night. If the mists are thin on a particular 
day, visibility is normal. 

The other factor that affects races not native to the cliffs is humidity. Characters 
from the rest of Athas aren't accustomed to the damp, soggy air produced by the 
mists. Outsiders not used to living in the vapors are one encumbrance category 
higher than they would be normally. Thus, unencumbered characters are lightly 
encumbered, moderately encumbered characters have heavy encumbrances, and so 
on. This is because of the energy draining effects of the intense humidity. Characters 
adapt to the conditions and ignore these penalties after 3d4 days. 

Climbing the Cliffs 

All rhul-thaun have a greater than normal (80%) base chance for climbing. This is 
because it is the easiest and most common means of getting from place to place. 
Additionally, many halflings-and all professional climbers-have the mountaineer 
ing proficiency, giving them an additional 10% chance. 

Rhul-thaun climbers have marked paths with good handholds and numerous 
ledges that stretch between various important locations on the Jagged Cliffs. The 
paths are marked with special symbols that tell a trained professional climber the 
details of the path-its direction, length, potential dangers, and the like. When on a 
path, climbers gain an additional 40% chance to climb. 

The mist, however, covers everything with a slippery coating of water. On days 
when the mist is heavy (90% of the time), all climbers must deduct -25% from their 
total chance to climb. This means that an average rhul-thaun climber (base 80% 
chance) with one slot of mountaineering proficiency (+10%) climbing when the 
rocks are slippery (-25%) has a 65% chance to climb successfully (80+10-25=65). 

More experienced climbers have more slots of mountaineering, as well as life 
shaped devices (like climbing boots and gloves) that raise this even higher. Then too, 
keep in mind other modifiers because of encumbrance, wounds, and the effects 
listed in the PHB. Lastly, note that the bonus for climbing on a path is not cumulative 
with the use of ropes to climb, although most rhul-thaun climbers only use ropes to 
secure themselves and rely on their own skill for the actual work of climbing. 

A failed climbing roll does not always suggest a fall down to the bottom, of course. 
(That would be fatal no matter how many hit points a character had.) If a character 
does fail the roll, the following optional table can be used: 

Failed Climbing Roll Results Table 

dlOO Result 

01-50 Stumbling and poor handholds slow climbing to half-movement rate. 

51-60 Harrowing near-death falls force a climber to pause for 1 dl0 rounds. 

61-70 Climber falls 10 feet before catching a new handhold. Character takes 1d6 
damage. 

71-80 Climber falls 1d6x10 feet to a ledge. Character takes 1d6 damage per 10 
feet. 

81-90 Climber falls 1d20x10 feet, finally coming to rest on a ledge. Character 
takes 1d6 damage per 10 feet. 

91-97 Climber falls 1 dl00x10 feet. Character takes 1d6 damage per 10 feet to a 
maximum of 20d6. 

98-00 Climber falls IdlOOxlOO feet, or to the base of the cliff, whichever is 

shorter. Character takes 1d6 damage per 10 feet to a maximum of 20d6. 

(To implant a note of realism into the game, the DM may rule that falls 
from heights more than 1,000 feet are always fatal.) 

The severity of the falls assumes no rope or pitons are being used to secure the 
climber. Climbing checks should be made about once an hour, less frequently if con 
ditions are good and more often in hazardous circumstances. 


22 


Living in a Halfling's World 

Obviously, when outsiders find themselves in a halfling village the first thing that 
they notice is that everything is small. For example, humans and elves have to duck 
to get through doorways, while extremely large characters, such as half giants, may 
not be able to go through some doorways at all. Furniture, utensils, clothing, equip 
ment-everything is very diminutive. The DM should emphasize this strangeness 
throughout the adventure. 

The organic nature and appearance of everything the PCs encounter in rhul-thaun 
society should also be stressed. For example, this culture is so devoid of straight lines 
that even inorganic articles are given smooth, angle-free appearances resembling life- 
forms. 

As the realm of the rhul-thaun is vertical, so are their lives. It is important to 
remember that the halflings are very well adapted to their surroundings. If PCs from 
the outside allow themselves to be drawn into combat situations with rhul-thaun 
while climbing or in situations conditions involving vertical surfaces, they are in for a 
terrible surprise. With the cliff fighting proficiency, not only do the rhul-thaun avoid 
the normal penalties associated with climbing (-2 to saving throws, attacks, and 
damage rolls while climbing, no Dexterity bonuses to AC while climbing, -2 for 
attacking from below, and others that may apply). However, the proficiency does give 
them a bonus to attack and damage. While other PCs face stiff penalties, the rhul- 
thaun perform with ease and panache. 



23 








Wanderer's 
Journal 

And so I found myself 
learning about a folk 
that I had never heard 
described even in 
rumors. These halflings 
are an ancient peo 
ple-in fact, they gave m 
me a new measuring 
stick for "ancient." Their 
race is older than any 
other on Athas. They 
remember times before the 
Warbringer, 
before magic, 
and before 
the advent of 
the Way. 

Their devo 
tion to the 
past is so all- 
consuming it 
governs the 
way they 
think and act 
on a daily 
basis. They 
are unaware 
of the forces 
of sorcery, 
and, because 
of it's "recent" 
introduction, 
they reject 

psionics. These are the very 
powers most Athasians accept as 
integral to the world and most 
archaic in origin. The rhul-thaun 
believe that the recent develop 
ment of 
psionics 
makes it a 
crude and 
unsophisti 
cated practice. 

The entire race is waiting. A 
time-lost ruler, a hero who once 
left the cliffs, promised to return 
with knowledge of a rhul-thaun- 
ian purpose in the world. They 
are still waiting, still needing a 
purpose, a reason for living. They 
need to discover their place in 
what they see as an ordered and 
structured universe. They live in 
the past, waiting for a future that 
may never come. 



CHAPTER 2 


The Ages of the 
Rhul-Thuan 


The history of the rhul-thaun is the history of Athas. Their origins lie with the rhulisti 
themselves, the one-time masters of the entire world and all who lived upon it. The 
people of the cliffs are the last remnants of that ancient, powerful race, and remain 
the keepers of many of the old secrets and customs. (See The Wanderer's Chronicle in 
the Dark Sun campaign set for more details about that ancient time.) 


The Dawn of Time 


In the Blue Age of Athas, when rich, sparkling water practically covered the world, the 
rhulisti flourished for a span of time whose measure is unknown today. This great race 
formed a union with the world unlike any breed of Athas today. They quickly learned 
to work with the forces of nature rather than oppose them. 

During their reign the rhulisti plumbed the depths of physical investigation and 
revealed many of the secrets of nature. Although their knowledge encompassed many 
things, they reached the height of their enlightenment when they harnessed the ener 
gies of life itself. Under the sea they found a living, porous stone that they could 
manipulate to grow into any desired shape. From this basic substance, they learned 
the process of manipulating the building blocks of living things. 

The rhulisti found that living creatures, both plants and animals, could be 
redesigned and built like any other sorts of tools but they refused to think of the 
organisms they created as mere commodities. They respected life as they respected 
the world and refused to abuse it or to take any of it for granted. Armed with this new 
ability to shape and mold life, they constructed living buildings, vehicles, tools, 
guardians, and other useful objects. 


24 


Becoming true masters of the world, the rhulisti prospered for centuries. They had 
many communities, including the great city of Tyr'agi, in what is now the Tyr Valley. 
They also settled themselves on a chain of islands to the north and west of Tyr'agi. 
These islands would one day be the tops of what are now the Jagged Cliffs. 

The Birth of the Rhul-thaun 


At the end of the Blue Age, the seas began to die. The death of Athas's oceans was 
due to an accident. The inadvertent creation and release of a life-leaching brown plant 
caused the waters to recede. Thus, the Jagged Cliffs were born. (In truth, the rhulisti's 
monumental feat was the use of the sun's energy to kill the tide of brown sludge that 
caused the seas' volume to decline.) The island halflings descended the now-exposed 
cliffs and discovered that the retreating waters had uncovered a number of large 
ledges upon which whole communities could be established. While the rhulisti of the 
Tyr'agi area were busy engineering the Rebirth, those on the cliffs were isolated on 
the rocky ledges. 

And so the rhul-thaun, the people of the cliffs, became a separate and distinct peo 
ple from the other halflings of Athas. After the Rebirth, when the rhulisti transformed 
themselves into humans, demi-humans, and other humanoids, the rhul-thaun discov 
ered they were isolated in a steadily changing world. A few other unaltered rhulisti 
halflings remained in far-flung locales, but these people eventually forgot their origins 
and became wild, uncivilized savages. Not so for the rhul-thaun-they remembered 
and struggled to preserve what once was. 

Because of their isolation and their early struggles for survival, the rhul-thaun were 
unaware of what actually occurred during the Rebirth or why the world had changed. 
In fact, they are still oblivious of these things. In the following era, known as the 
Green Age, the halflings of the cliffs remained separated from the rest of the world. As 
the new races-humans, elves, dwarves, and the rest-built cities and carved out 
roads, the rhul-thaun remained in their cliff-clinging villages, waiting for some sign of 
what had happened to the rest of their people. They could see that the sun had 
changed from sapphire blue to a golden yellow, and that the sea had receded far from 
them. Beyond their own observations, they had no idea of the changes that had been 
wrought upon their world, nor of the reason for them. 

Isolation 


Approximately 14,000 years ago, during the early Green Age, the rhul-thaun created 
the city of Thamasku. (This was soon after the waters of the Blue Age began to 
recede.) At that time (and even today) water from the tablelands flowed toward the 
low lands in the west, winding through the area near Thamasku and creating a lush 
and fertile forest. 

Shortly afterward, the halflings began to descend the sides of the cliffs. There they 
found a number of large ledges where they established camps and homes, particularly 
for those who wished to dwell in isolation. It wasn't until much later that they would 
actually build whole communities on these ledges. 

In those days a strong ruler led the rhul-thaun, known as the High Lord. His name 
was Rhan Thes-onel and they remember him as the greatest of them all. In fact, he is 
the only high lord whose name they still remember. 

High Lord Rhan Thes-onel left the Jagged Cliffs with an expeditionary force to find 
out what had happened to the rest of the rhulisti and to discover more about the 
changes that had occurred on Athas. He directed his people to stay on the cliffs and 
wait for his return. When he came back, he told them, the rhul-thaun would again 
know their place and purpose in the world. Lord Rhan's exact fate is unknown, but he 
never returned to the cliffs. The rhul-thaun, however, took his well-spoken words to 
heart, and vowed to remain on the Jagged Cliffs until he brought them the knowledge 
that they needed to take their place among the societies of Athas. They still wait 
patiently for his triumphant return. 

Because of their self-imposed isolation, the halflings settled on the cliffs themselves 


as their population grew. They established villages on the ledges, making climbing 
and windriding necessary occupations. The first of these kept the ancient names that 
they had held when the first rhul-thaun used the ledges to build secluded homes for 
nobles. By this time, however, rhul-thaunian language had already changed consider 
ably from its rhulisti roots, and new villages took names that reflected this fact. Thus, 
the vertical culture of the rhul-thaun began. The halflings began to focus on the cliffs 
and their vertical nature, forgetting their old lives in the cities and the seafaring ways 
of the rhulisti. 

Throughout the Green Age, the transformation of Athas and its inhabitants became 
ever more evident. Living things prospered and many new creatures appeared along 
the cliffs, some of them posing threats to the safety of the rhul-thaun. More signifi 
cantly, and like most other living creatures on the Athas, the people of the cliffs began 
to develop wild psionic talents. Unaccustomed to such powers, the halflings never 
learned to master or refine these abilities. In fact, most of them chose to look down 
on such powers and those who possessed them. Since psionics did not exist in 
ancient times, they thought of those who wielded such powers as lesser beings. 

Many centuries passed and rhul-thaunian culture further identified itself with its 
rocky cliffs and its isolation. Unknown to them, however, an evil enterprise was afoot, 
literally under their noses. At the base of the Jagged Cliffs, a mighty river washed 
along the rocky faces. At the edge of the river, in a thick, secluded forest, an immortal 
pyreen conducted experiments the likes of which had never been seen on Athas. (The 
pyreen appeared during the Rebirth, and the new race had the characteristics of many 
newly created peoples.) 

This pyreen, called Rajaat, discovered the powers of magic at the base of the Jagged 
Cliffs. Although his skills were limited at first, his experiments into what became 
defiler magic caused plant and animal life to mutate. The flourishing woodland trans 
formed into a huge swamp filled with the strange, uncontrolled energies released by 
Rajaat's investigations into this uncharted territory. Then too, many of Rajaat's experi 
ments had ended in failure and these he released into the bog. The energies twisted 



26 


and corrupted the swamp and the creatures that dwelled there, and plagued the half- 
lings on the cliffs above with Rajaat's Curse. 

The fearless halfling explorers who braved the journey into the swamp encountered 
Rajaat in his lair. The twisted pyreen attempted to share his gift with them but the 
rhul-thaun were terrified of what they saw, for they did not understand it. They fled 
the swamp, returning to their people with stories of horrible monsters and fantastic 
powers that defied the laws of nature. 

Rajaat left the swamp and ushered in the Time of Magic, the next age of Athas. 

Again, however, the rhul-thaun were completely ignorant of events that occurred 
beyond their limited domain. Rajaat, who had a special affinity for halflings and 
wished to keep their culture unsoiled, kept his silence concerning the rhul-thaun to 
the end of his life. 

The Old Ways Decline 

Although it devolved so slowly it was nearly imperceptible, the knowledge of their 
rhulisti predecessors was fading from the rhul-thaun. They found themselves unable to 
employ some life-shaping skills the old ones possessed. As they struggled to hang on 
to the lore of the rhulisti, they developed rituals of rhyme and repetition to help them 
remember the actions necessary to practice the art. 

As the centuries passed, the art of shaping life became less a detailed system of 
knowledge and more of a ritualized, quasi-religious set of rites and observances. The 
rhul-thaun lost the knowledge to explain how and why things worked and retained 
only the actions necessary to create the life-shaped creatures, structures, and tools 
they needed. With the decay of true understanding, the life-shapers desperately 
needed to remember the rituals of their art. If they forgot a ritual, that aspect of the 
practice was lost forever. None among them possessed the understanding to deduce 
what needed to be done to regain a lost skill. 

The lack of ancient knowledge also made it impossible for them to modify or alter 
their creations. The rituals only contained the knowledge necessary to produce spe 
cific results. They couldn't comprehend how to modify or even adjust the process. 
Attempts to do so resulted in utter failure, or worse-disaster. They produced horrible, 
misshapen creatures in blind experiments in modification. They destroyed many 
unfortunate results, but given their reluctance to kill anything produced by life-shap 
ing, some creatures escaped. These accidental monsters fled into the crevices and 
caves within the cliffs or into the swamp below. There, many survived and somehow 
even reproduced. Because of these tragic failures, all investigations to alter the life 
shaping rituals are now expressly forbidden. 

The ritualistic basis for life-shaping spread into all other aspects of society-law, 
economics, family, politics, and the very rhythms of life. Politically, the rhul-thaun 
began to expand and develop a number of divergent communities. The people were 
too separated and different to be ruled by a single individual, so they formed a coun 
cil known as the Conclave. Members of the Conclave are elders of the halfling clans 
and chosen according to experience, respect, and accomplishments. They call these 
judgment makers the har-etuil. 

As these political and economic changes were taking place, rhul-thaun society 
began to break down into a rigid class structure. The importance of merchants who 
sold goods transported by climbers and windriders increased, resulting in a society 
driven by commerce and trade. Those who were wealthier than their neighbors in the 
new system began to link themselves together into an elite, privileged class, while 
those who remained in occupations of manual labor or menial work sunk into the 
newly forming lower class. Most of the merchants, climbers, and windriders remained 
in what was now the middle class. Crime, never a real problem before, now became 
rampant as those with little began to take from those who had much. Worse, some of 
these malefactors established criminal organizations and became very wealthy them 
selves, joining the upper class. 


27 


A Threat From Beyond 

Although as a race the rhul-thaun await the return of High Lord Rhan to reveal to 
them their purpose in the world, many individuals feel that the purpose of the rhul- 
thaun is obvious. Beyond the Jagged Cliffs to the north and west lies the flourishing, 
growing thri-kreen empire. The expansionist insects have even made forays into the 
swamp at the base of the cliffs, looking upward to the halflings as potential prey. Two 
different natural phenomena defend the halflings-the sheer cliff faces that the thri- 
kreen find nearly impossible to scale, and the humidity of the swamp, which repels 
the invaders because of its tendency to cause a rotting affliction in their carapaces. 

Nevertheless, the rhul-thaun gained some information from brave explorers and 
captured raiders, and soon they developed the idea that it was their responsibility to 
defend the rest of the world to the south and east from the incursions of the thri- 
kreen. Windrider patrols watch the edge of the swamp closely for kreen (as the rhul- 
thaun call them) raiders and spies. 

Because of the natural difficulties the insectoids face in the region, there has never 
been anything resembling true warfare between them and the rhul-thaun. 

Occasionally, thri-kreen with special equipment have reached some of the lower half- 
ling communities and attack, ever probing their defenses, looking for weaknesses and 
easier methods to ascend to the top of the cliffs. Even to this day, however, these 
incursions have only served to strengthen the halflings' resolve to repel the invaders 
and save both themselves and the rest of the world. 

Cleansing Wars and Sorcerer-Kings 

Because Rajaat wanted to return the world to the halflings, he specifically made sure 
that the rhul-thaun were not involved in the Cleansing Wars. He told his Champions 
that they were forbidden to enter the Jagged Cliffs region, a command that they 
obeyed, although some of them suspected what they might find there. 

Likewise, when Rajaat was betrayed and the sorcerer-kings rose to power in the Tyr 
Region, the rhul-thaun were unaffected. Instead, the halfling society continued to 
grow and prosper. During this time, the newest of the cliff villages were founded 
(these being Sahr-tosh and Vir-rath). The importance of clans and clan affiliation began 
to decline, and an organized resistance to the rhul-thaun way of life began to develop 
in secret. Those discontented with the society named themselves Chahn, after the 
ancient rhulisti word meaning freedom. 

Recent Events 

Just last year a terrible earthquake rocked the Jagged Cliffs. Though its epicenter was 
far below, in the thri-kreen savannas, the effects were felt with tremendous force 
throughout the region. The villages of Reg-tol, Glerran, and Sunnil were struck partic 
ularly hard. Fortunately, the organic nature of halfling buildings prevented serious 
earthquake damage, so most of the lives and structures in those communities were 
spared. All contact was lost with the village of Mir-sath, however. 

It did not take the windriders long to realize that the unthinkable had happened. 
Mir-sath, a small city of over 2,000 inhabitants, had simply fallen off the cliff. The 
earthquake caused the ledges on which they built the village to crumble and fall into 
the swamp, taking the community and its entire population with them. 

Unknown to the halflings, however, the cliffs far to the south had collapsed 
entirely-they split and formed a great rift. When the dust finally settled, that rift 
proved to be a pass from the high tablelands to the savanna below. Communication 
and travel are now possible where, historically, it was not. The thri-kreen finally have 
their passage through the cliffs. The inhabitants of the Tyr Region are now more aware 
of the Jagged Cliffs area as a whole. How this opening will affect the rhul-thaun has 
yet to be seen, although it makes contact with outsiders inevitable. 


28 


Halfling History 

While they know more about the Blue Age of Athas than any other Athasians, the 
rhul-thaun do not know everything detailed in the previous historical sections, nor are 
they aware of any events that have occurred beyond the Jagged Cliffs. The rhul-thaun 
relate their history orally, in mantras memorized in as much detail as the rituals they 
cherish. 

The halflings know that the rhulisti once ruled Athas, when water covered the 
world. Their power came from life-shaping, which was a far greater art then than the 
remnants of it are in rhul-thaun culture today. 

An accident created the brown tide that forced the ancient halflings to alter the 
color of the sun. The people of the cliffs remember these events, but not with any 
more detail than that. The change in the sun caused the waters to recede, and the 
rhul-thaun found themselves isolated on the cliffs. They don't know what became of 
the other halflings. 

Most of their remaining knowledge of history is limited to their own experiences. 
They know nothing of the people or events of the Green Age. Although halflings con 
fronted Rajaat as he developed the art of magic and created spells right beneath them, 
the halflings know nothing of the effect that he had on the rest of Athas. 




29 













Wanderer's 
Journal 

So different in thought 
and deed are these half- 
lings from the other 
peoples of Athas! 

Living on the cliffs for 
untold centuries has 
given them a unique 
outlook-a vertical per 
spective, if you will. 

When you and I stand 10 
feet apart, we think that we 
are close together. If I stood 
on a ledge, 

10 feet above 
you, how 
ever, you 
would claim 
that I was far 
away-high 
above and 
out of reach. 

To the rhul- 
thaun, this 
process is 
reversed. To 

them, distances of height are 
more familiar than those of hori 
zontal space. Ten feet above is 
nearby to 
these half- 
lings, but 
something 
10 feet away 
is at a distance. 

The fact that they live their 
lives shrouded in mist also seems 
to have changed their perception 
of distance as well, since they 
can usually see only a few dozen 
feet in front of themselves at any 
given time. Additionally, the 
great mist covers everything with 
a thin coat of slippery dew. The 
rhul-thaun have, of course, 
learned to adapt to the dampness 
and even have used their talent 
for shaping life to create living 
structures to absorb much of the 
moisture, keeping the insides 
warm and dry. In so many ways, 
the craft of the life-shapers has 
allowed them to adapt and thrive 
in the most adverse of conditions 
and in the most unconventional 
of environments. 



%!>J^ 

CHAPTER 3: 

Life on the Cliffs 



The past and the present continually collide in rhul-thaun society. Their faithful, endur 
ing support of the old ways has shaped their society as profoundly as the Jagged Cliffs 
on which they make their homes. 

A Society of Ritual 

Del-omihn gave the herb merchant a formal greeting, touching both temples and then, 
moving his hands upward and away, flaring his fingers outward. The merchant 
returned the salutation and began to recite the short version of the Merchants' Chant 
of Opening Sale. /As he did so, Del-omihn examined the orderly pouches of herbs the 
dealer had displayed before him on his cart. 

When the merchant finished his ritual, Del-omihn indicated the three different med 
icinal herbs in which he was interested. /As required, the merchant asked him three 
times if he was sure that those herbs were what he wanted. Each time, as the ritual 
demanded, Del-omihn assented by bowing curtly from the waist. The two of them 
spent a few moments haggling over the actual price and the method of payment. 

As Del-omihn gave the handler the few coins that they agreed upon, he recited the 
Short Mantra of Payment. The herb seller clasped his hands in front of him twice and 
then opened them wide in the ritualized showing of thanks. Smiling, Del-omihn took 
his herbs and moved down the street to another vendor in the marketplace. 

The significance of ritual is deeply rooted in the culture of the cliff dwelling halflings 
and ceremonial behavior is ingrained into every aspect of rhul-thaun life. Everyday 
activities, communications, economics, special events, and even lawmaking involve 
highly developed protocols. 

In fact, the ritualistic movement defines the rhul-thaun, so greatly has it shaped their 
societal and individual characters that it cannot be separated from either of them. 

Their need for structure is intense, and their interpretation of the world's design is cen 
tered around the steps they take to define and control it. Their culture, based on ideas 
they don't truly understand (life-shaping), involves rituals designed to organize and 
interpret the world in their own terms. 


50 


The wind upon which they ride, the mist that rises from the swamp, and all of the 
other forces of nature that are so important to rhul-thaun life terrify the halflings with 
their power and unpredictable nature. To help understand and perhaps control these 
forces, the people of the cliffs have developed specific activities and patterns of think 
ing that they believe give them power over the world-the same dominion that their 
forebears the rhulisti once held. 

Their connection with the forces that shape life pales before that of their ancestors, 
but there is still a strong, deeply felt bond. To maintain this link, the rhul-thaun have 
formulated rites to explain, or at least interpret, life-shaping. Their whole way of life is 
based upon this art, yet they truly understand only the most basic principles. To mask 
their ignorance, they use rituals grounded in the basic actions required to perform 
specific operations. The rhul-thaun have forgotten more of the ancient conventions 
than they remember, but enough accurate information survives in ceremony so that 
they can still achieve much with this fantastic art. 

Other rituals within rhul-thaun society accomplish less in a real way, but they hold 
great significance for the people of the cliffs. The rites give them a feeling of power 
over their own lives. This should not be confused with any sort of religious belief, 
however. Rhul-thaun rituals and beliefs are more similar to superstitions, but even that 
is not quite accurate. If one were to ask the rhul-thaun, they would say that their cere 
monial performances do not require luck or supernatural assistance for their success. 
They are simply necessary elements, just as a weapon must be hefted before it can be 
used to strike an enemy, as armor must be worn before it can offer protection. The rit 
uals bind life's activities and give a veneer of order in a chaotic world-not to better 
the odds of success by providing good luck (or avoiding bad luck) as superstitious 
human rituals might do. 

When a halfling from the Jagged Cliffs encounters an individual from outside his 
own culture, the stranger's lack of ceremonial knowledge is disorienting and confus 
ing. The outsider seems uncultured, perhaps even rude in his ignorance. Some rhul- 
thaun find it easy to forgive a newcomer for his lack of awareness regarding their 
rituals, but others will not, refusing to deal with a "savage." 

Formal Rituals 

Without exception, every formal activity in this culture involves a rite. Rhul-thaun rituals 
can easily be broken if they are performed incorrectly. In these cases, the participants 
must begin again. Sometimes, the ritual becomes as important as the desired action 
itself. Many young activists, especially the Chahn, struggle to convince the rest of soci 
ety that they have placed too much emphasis on ceremony and not enough on reality, 
but ancient traditions are not easily vanquished. It will take many generations to extin 
guish these practices, if such a thing is even possible. 

Legal actions, whether they involve settling a dispute, bequeathing an inheritance, 
or proposing a new law, all require specific and complicated rites. There are no pro 
fessional lawyers or counselors in rhul-thaun society, so individuals who take part in 
the process must learn the rituals themselves. Much of the time, legal ceremonial is 
verbal in nature, requiring complex speeches memorized and recited by all concerned 
parties. 

Economic transactions, even the purchase of a simple comb or brush, require some 
ritualized activity. An outside observer watching these negotiations would assume that 
what is taking place here is simple barter, haggling in the historic manner of many cul 
tures (and often it is), but the reality is that these mercantile activities are actually 
ordered, social rituals of sale rather than arguments about price and quality. Botched 
rites can ruin a well-bartered deal. 

Politics and diplomacy are no different. When a member of one group, such as the 
life-shapers, makes a case before another group, like the judgment makers, certain ritu 
als of protocol are mandatory. Even simple diplomatic messages are delivered by spe 
cially trained messengers armed with the proper ceremonies. 

When the judgment makers meet and hold court, the routine of making important 
decisions and rulings commands exceptional formality. If they breach these solemn 
protocols, they must either perform the rites again or the judgment is declared invalid. 


Everyday Rituals 

Unlike formal activities, not all daily activities involve this kind of prescribed behav 
ior. Nevertheless, these practices are so inherent in rhul-thaunian culture that most are 
unaware of including them. 

Simple rhul-thaun speech, including greetings and the proper forms for addressing 
authorities, elders, children, and relatives, incorporates ancient, spoken forms. 
Sometimes hand gestures or other body movements are attached to verbal forms as 
well, giving them a physical component. 

Ceremonies are always attached to the use of life-shaped creations. Short rites must 
be performed before an organic tool or weapon is used. This is normally done before 
the object is touched and involves special gestures and verbal expressions. 

Living a Vertical Life 

Three young men climbed up to the sky, 

One falls down, doomed to die. 

The other two rule, kings at the top, 

Power on high, impossible to stop. 

- rhul-thaun children's poem 

Along with ritual, the aspect of rhul-thaun life that has most influenced this society is 
the fact that they live on the Jagged Cliffs. While the halflings have greater access to 
water and food than those of the Tyr Region, life holds many challenges on the cliffs. 

For obvious reasons, climbing is an important skill among these halflings. Many of 
these folk make their living by scaling the vertical forests that grow up the sides of the 
cliffs. They collect nuts, berries, fruits, and roots that are used for food and medicines 
and gather wood for cooking and heating fires. Other professional climbers carry mes 
sages or deliver packages to distant villages along the faces of the cliffs. Climbing 
hunters stalk the nesting birds, rodents, and reptiles that live in the chinks and cracks 
of the bluffs. 

The most common mode of transport, however, is windriding. Using the life-shaping 
arts of their ancestors, the halflings create creatures they call gon-evauth (soar 
whales), ber-ethern (breeze sprites), and yihn-eflan (gust climbers). Each of these crea 
tures is designed to be used as air transport. They create them by a variety of methods 
(see Chapter 5) to take advantage of the powerful winds and the rising hot, humid air 
to stay aloft. 

The vertical arrangement of rhul-thaun cities is their answer to the limitations of 
space on many of the cliffs. Additionally, the cliffs themselves have conditioned the 
halflings to think more in terms of an upright orientation than horizontal one. Their 
buildings are stacked one upon the next and connected by ladders and stairs as often 
as by horizontal walkways or bridges. In rhul-thaun society, the upper classes are just 
that-the most prestigious and lavish dwellings, those at the roofs of the towns, 
belong to those who occupy the highest positions in the villages. 

With two strong, prevailing weather conditions along the cliffs-high, dangerous 
winds and (far more commonly) the thick, rising mist-the halflings have had to adapt 
to these climactic conditions. The wind gives the riders a medium of transportation 
along the bluffs. Nevertheless, it presents a hazard to life there as well. The powerful 
air currents can, at times, literally whip an unsecured or unprepared halfling off a 
ledge and fling him to his death. Most climbers carry life-shaped spikes and leather 
harnesses in case they are caught in a windstorm while climbing. With these tools 
they can secure themselves to the solid rock until the winds subside. Most rhul-thaun 
villages are built deep into recesses on the sides of the cliffs so that the winds present 
less of a danger. Naturally, the cliff-dwellers are aware of the dangers of intense winds 
and most exposed objects can quickly be secured during gales and storms. The 
organic buildings of the villages are more than adequate to protect everything within 
their walls from the force of the winds. 

The thick wall of mist that rises from the swamps at the cliffs' base presents another 
sort of challenge. While infrequent strong winds cause problems, climbers face the most 


32 


extreme danger from the mists. The dense, steamy clouds sometimes reduce visibility to 
0, making even simple movements demanding and perilous. At best, visibility ranges 
from only 10 to 60 feet. Worse, condensation from the mist coats everything within its 
envelope. The slick, icy, water makes climbing extremely hazardous. To compensate, 
climbers use life-shaped tools known as dry anchors to climb along slippery surfaces. 

The wall of mist has influenced rhul-thaun culture to such an extreme that the half- 
lings have grown accustomed to the idea of not being able to see very far at any given 
time. This in turn has shaped their notion of distance. To the rhul-thaun, a "far away" 
object is usually much closer than it would be, described by a person of another cul 
ture. Newcomers visiting from the Tyr Region will find this minor quirk to be confus 
ing at first, but should soon adapt. 

Life-View 

To the rhul-thaun there is no world view, there is no existence, without a purpose. 
Everything in nature, they believe, has a purpose within its ecosystem-even in the 
harsh deserts beyond the cliffs that so confuse and frighten them. It follows then, that 
everything else should also have a purpose in life. This idea is instilled in every mem 
ber of their society, from the very young to the very old. 

The individual's purpose often takes the form of an occupation. In his lifetime, each 
individual chooses a role that in some way benefits the community as a whole as well 
as himself. 

Each rhul-thaun must know the purpose and function he or she fulfills, to know 
one's place in the broader scheme of things. Alone, one must define a purpose of 
one's own. When rhul-thaun are feeling tense or anxious, simply focusing on their 
purpose usually makes them feel more at ease. A rhul-thaun without a purpose soon 
gives in to despair. 


The focus of purpose also includes the entire society. As a people, the rhul-thaun 



33 



need to feel that they have a status and a mission within the vastness of the world. 

This is why many believe that High Lord Rhan, who promised to return with the 
knowledge of that purpose nearly 14,000 years ago, will return. He is their messiah 
who will lead them to a higher purpose and a greater destiny. 

In addition to purpose, structure and order are the linchpins of rhul-thaun culture. 

All of the rituals that make up their lives have cloaked their perceptions in structure. 
Their government is a surprisingly complex web of judgment makers, administrators, 
lawkeepers, and minor bureaucrats, all of whom are there to keep order. 

Lastly, the sanctity of life in all its forms is pivotal to the halflings. While they are 
not beyond hunting for food and killing to defend their homes, they respect all living 
things. Rhul-thaun never take a life casually-even the lives of those creatures other 
races would consider vermin, like rats and insects. In accordance with their beliefs, 
there are life-taking rituals to be performed before and after killings take place. 

This philosophy of the exalted nature of life has been preserved and passed down, 
directly from the rhulisti, for centuries. For it was their belief that life itself was the might 
iest force in the world. The development of the art of life-shaping was a direct result of 
this belief. The ancient halflings treated their shaped creations with the utmost regard, 
although they were tools and weapons, mere objects to be used. The rhul-thaun continue 
this traditional reverence for their creations, treating them as precious treasures. 

Murder, the killing of another halfling, is a very serious crime among the rhul-thaun. 
Even in dangerous situations, when the lawkeepers have cornered a band of thieves or 
two feuding clans clash, lives are never taken without careful consideration. However, 
when the decision to kill is made (and justified to one's own conscience), it is done 
swiftly and without hesitation. To hesitate before taking a life is the way of outsiders. 
The destruction of a nonhalfling is more easily justified in the minds of the rhul-thaun, 
however, than killing their own. 

Religion and Reverence 

Like many Athasian societies, the rhul-thaun have developed what might be called a 
"religion," one centered around the elements. Their religious convictions are not 
strong, however, and the priests supporting them are few. Elemental clerics and their 
followers can be found in most halfling settlements, but their influence is slight. 

The priests serve the elemental powers of earth, air, and water. Water is the most 
commonly revered element, and air, particularly among windriders, is also well- 
served. Earth too has its place, but serving fire is forbidden. They see fire as a 
destroyer, a taker of life. 

Although life-shapers are not holy men and life-shaping is not a religion, many half 
lings have elevated these men and their hidden rituals to something that closely 
resembles worship. The life-shapers wield power not only because they provide the 
things that support the entirety of rhul-thaun civilization, but also because most of the 
population holds them in reverence. It is difficult not to look with awe upon those 
who provide homes, transportation, tools, weapons, protection, food, clothing, and 
virtually every other necessity and luxury within the culture. 

Clan Structure and Family 

Rhul-thaun society is well defined and divided into extended families called clans. 

The clans are large enough, and the actual blood relations so distant, that intermar 
riage among clan members is common and without risk to the children who may be 
born as a result. The clans are defined more in terms of political alliances than actual 
ties to family and kin. 

Moreover, the idea of the delineating structure of the clans is a fading notion. The 
halflings identify themselves more closely with their communities than with the clans. 
Nevertheless, halfling clans still provide a point of reference for each individual. 
Everyone has the right to take his clan's name as his surname, and each clan owns col 
ors, patterns of clothing, and hair styles that identify affiliation. 

Each clan has a leader or group of leaders called har-etuil. They act as clan chieftains 


54 


and judges. Each has a physical base of operations called a clanhouse. The clanhouse is 
used for meetings, important ceremonies (like marriage and naming rituals), and various 
community events. 

Immediate families among the halflings are close, and strong ties form between sib 
lings and cousins. These family members often remain in close proximity to each other 
throughout their lives, even working in the same or similar occupations. Rhul-thaun 
hunting parties, food gathering bands, and adventuring teams commonly consist of 
related halflings, for example. On average, each family has two to six children. 

Elderly family members are honored and given positions of respect and importance 
(those who grow too old or too weak to perform physical tasks sometimes become har- 
etuil). The younger members of the family delight in the stories told by their elders dur 
ing the ceremonial tale-telling time each week. These familial meetings take place with 
a great deal of regularity, a shared responsibility recognized by all members of society. 

Marriages are formal events, filled with long rituals. At one time, they arranged mar 
riages within a clan or with nearby clans. This rarely takes place now, and people are 
free to choose their mates. Because of their deep sense of purpose and obligation, rhul- 
thaun marriages usually last for life. 

Halflings recognize differences between the sexes only in most literal sense. Both 
genders are afforded the same rights regarding property ownership and the ability to 
hold positions of power, importance, or influence. Family lineage is traced through both 
mother and father, usually focusing on prominent ancestors, regardless of sex. 

All occupations are open to everyone. Since there is practically no difference between 
male and female rhul-thaun in physical strength, heartiness, or dexterity, they make 
equally good warriors, climbers, windancers, and windriders. 

The Har-Etuil 

The halflings of the Jagged Cliffs are governed by clan chieftains, known as har-etuil, or 
judgment makers. The har-etuil are not so much rulers as they are the representatives of 
their people, speaking for their clans when the judgment makers meet to discuss issues. 
They hold these meetings, called Conclaves, when necessary, but at least twice a year. 
The Conclave meets in the city of Thamasku. Most of a har-etuil's time is spent serving 
as a judge, however, settling disputes and adjudicating small-scale issues. 

Each of these men and women are selected by the other har-etuil from prospective 
candidates of the clan they will represent and govern. Aspirants make it known that they 
would like to be considered for the position when one becomes available. New har- 
etuil are chosen when one retires, dies, or is removed by a vote of the others. 

The number of judgment makers in each clan depends on the clan's size. Generally, 
there is one har-etuil for every 200 adult clan members. When the leaders assemble and 
hold council sessions, all the har-etuil of a clan represent their clan and its needs, and 
so larger clans have greater representation and a greater voice. 

Crime and Punishment 

When the Conclave meets, it makes decisions and passes laws that affect all rhul-thaun. 
Most laws are straightforward. They define such crimes as murder, assault, rape, and 
theft, and assign them punishments. The har-etuil alone passes judgment on accused 
offenders, handing down sentences of punishment to the guilty. 

Punishments for crimes range from fines to serving time at hard labor, from restitution 
to banishment into the swamp at the base of the cliffs (the sentence for murder). The 
jails are run by the lawkeepers and are only used to detain offenders until they can 
bring them before the har-etuil. Imprisonment is never employed as a punishment. No 
har-etuil has the right to sentence anyone to death, although little remorse is felt con 
cerning a violent criminal killed by a lawkeeper in battle. 


35 



Economics 

The economic system of the rhul-thaun is based on an ancient currency of small, oval 
leaf-like growths created by their life-shaping ancestors. These organic coins have the 
feel and weight of very hard pieces of animal shell or reptilian scales. The oval pieces, 
called ghav-egoths ("life wealth" or "the value of life") can no longer be created-the 
methods and rituals of their manufacture is lost. Because of this, there is a shortage of 
ghav-egoths and much of modern commerce is conducted by the barter system detailed 
in the Dark Sun campaign setting. 

Merchants, of course, prefer the use of the organic coins. They are simple, straightfor 
ward, and easily measured and recorded. 

Because the rhul-thaun use ghav-egoths as currency, the coins, gems, and other valu 
ables of outsiders are mere curiosities. Some halflings may ascribe a value to them, but 
only out of aesthetics or perceived collectability. Likewise, outsiders most certainly con 
sider ghav-egoths as worthless, for they simply appear to be bits of animal shell or rep 
tile hide to those not familiar with the art of life-shaping. 

There is no actual exchange rate between ghav-egoths and the ceramic pieces of the 
Tyr Region. Despite this, a ghav-egoth will purchase an amount equivalent to that of the 
ceramic piece. The point is, however, that this "currency" cannot purchase anything in a 
marketplace in Tyr or Balic, for example, and a ceramic piece is not recognized as hav 
ing the same value as a ghav-egoth to rhul-thaun merchants. 

Prices and Values 

Many of the items found in the PHB are not available in rhul-thaun society. Instead, the 
halflings use life-shaped creations that serve the same purposes. The rhul-thaun do not 
mine or smelt metals, they have no smiths or casters, so no metallic items are to be 


36 


found in their marketplaces. Items made of stone and wood can be purchased at a rate 
of 5% of their listed value, while life-shaped creations resembling bone and leather are 
worth 1% of the listed price. 

Food, lodging, and services cost 1% of their listed value in the PHB. Values for life 
shaped creations are given in Chapter 5. 

Note that 1 ge = 1 cp and 10 ge = 1 sp 

Fees, Taxes and Wages 

The following prices are all given in terms of ghav-egoths. All are variable, subject to the 
specific situation and location. 


Monthly Earnings Table 


Profession 

Single Job Fee 

Monthly Wage 

Administrator 

- 

30 ge 

Clerk (government) 

- 

9 ge 

Climber (per 3 miles) 

1 ge 

Varies 

Craftsman 

Varies 

4 ge 

Har-etuil 

- 

40 ge 

Healer 

1-5 ge 

15 ge 

Unskilled Labor 

- 

1 ge 

Skilled Labor 

- 

4 ge 

Lawkeeper 

- 

5 ge 

Life-Shaper 


50 ge 

Merchant 

- 

10-50 ge 

Teacher 

- 

5 ge 

Tender 

- 

3 ge 

Windancer 

Varies 

Varies 

Windrider (per 3 miles) 

3 ge 

Varies 



37 





Each community collects taxes from each populace. Taxes range between Vfe and 3 ghav- 
egoths a month, collected bimonthly. Clans also impose a light taxation (3 to 6 ghav- 
egoth annually) to pay the har-etuil. 

Commerce 

Most commerce takes place in village marketplaces. Climbers and windriders bring in 
the harvests and the game they have gathered, craftspeople display their wares, and 
laborers offer services, all in the colorful cacophony to be found in markets everywhere. 

Life-shapers also present their living creations for the consideration of the merchants 
who sell them to the public, taking a small percentage of profit on each sale. 

Occupations 

To these people, a purpose in life is vital, and in most cases individuals are defined by 
what they do within the community and what benefits the society gains from their labor. 

Many of the professionals and craftspeople in this culture wear cosmetic graft patches 
to identify themselves as members of a particular group or as "advertising" to display to 
those around them that they are available to provide a service. The patches are life 
shaped, organic tissue grown in specific shapes with distinctive colors. The tissue can be 
attached to a person's skin and resembles a raised tattoo. They can be easily removed, 
although they shrivel and "die" if kept from a "host" for too long. 

Climbers 


Obviously, climbers are essential in a society that dwells on the ledges of these imposing 
cliffs. From the early years of life, hardy, dexterous children are sought by professional 
climbers to be trained for a life in this arduous career. Likely candidates undergo a two- 



38 




year apprenticeship during which all but 10% of their earnings go to their masters. 

They use ropes, hooks, harnesses, and even some life-shaped climbing gear as sec 
ondary equipment, but prefer to scale amazing distances up the sheer cliffs employing 
nothing but their bare hands and feet. 

Climbers not only scale the cliffs vertically, but travel along them laterally, back and 
forth between the various halfling settlements and the vertical forests. Climbers nor 
mally use well-traveled routes across the face of the Jagged Cliffs. The paths are marked 
by stones bearing carved symbols unique to the climbing profession. Young climbers 
are taught to read these signs, which not only show the proper trails, but give warnings 
regarding monsters, potential landslides, and other dangers. 

There are three basic missions for climbers. The first is to seek out the vertical forests 
found on the sides and ledges of the cliffs. From there, they gather valuable plants used 
for food, medicine, and a variety of other purposes. Because they are limited to what 
they can carry on their backs, however, they normally gather only rare and costly 
plants, relying on the windriding harvesters to gather mass quantities. The food and veg 
etation gleaned from the forests only supplements what is created through life-shaping. 
Harvesting the forests has just become necessary within the last few hundred years, ever 
since the rhul-thaun population outgrew their capability to produce life-shaped crops. 

Like harvesters, climbing hunters are relatively new to the rhul-thaun. These brave 
men and women descend to stalk the animals and monsters that live in crevices and 
caves. Since many of these beasts are extremely dangerous, climbing hunters often 
travel in large groups working together to bring down their prey and haul it back to a 
waiting village. 

Finally, climbers travel between the scattered villages and camps, delivering messages 
and packages. Sometimes climbers double as traveling merchants, journeying from one 
settlement to the next, selling or trading the wares they carry on their backs. There are 
those who work as independents, but most belong to organizations and guilds that 
encourage them to work in teams. These associations are small, often consisting of a 
few family members and friends. Occasionally guilds become larger, having 20-30 
members, but always limiting membership to citizens of a single community. Guild 
climbers usually have their fees-for-service set by the guild. Independent climbers are 
free to demand whatever rates they believe they deserve. Guild climbers are usually 
cheaper, but unaffiliated climbers are more willing to take larger risks for larger fees. 

Although many climbers live in the large rhul-thaun communities, some live in 
camps situated on the smaller ledges and in the caves of the cliffs. The camps consist 
of a few climbers and their families, usually numbering less than 20. 

Healers 

Since priests are rare and magic is unknown, the rhul-thaun do not rely on them to 
heal their wounds and cure their diseases. Instead, professional healers set broken 
limbs, assist during childbirth, instruct the sick in various cures and remedies, and 
sometimes administer herbal and life-shaped medicines. Although they no longer 
remember all of the principles behind life-shaping, many of the details of that art have 
given the halflings a better understanding of the operation of the body than that of 
most other Athasian races. Few of these healers' cures are based on superstitions or 
deceptive nostrums. 

The life-shapers produce some constructs that aid in healing, but they believe that 
the ancient rhulisti could cure all diseases and heal all wounds using their knowledge 
of life. 

Life-Shapers 

If windriding is the most glamorous profession, then life-shaping is the most revered 
and the most critical. Only children of the highest intelligence are encouraged to focus 
their studies toward life-shaping. These studies require a precise knowledge of hun 
dreds of different rituals and a detailed, specialized knowledge of the care and han 
dling of life-shaped creations and the raw materials needed to produce them. 
Life-shapers, as the only technicians in this society, acquire a great deal of power and 
high degree of respect, a respect bordering on veneration. 


39 


The life-shapers are a secret society of knowledge and ritual. The members of this 
elite order presume that they are superior to the rest of the rhul-thaun, with stronger 
links to the past. Because their lore comes from ancient times, the life-shapers revere 
the rhulisti to a degree that approaches worship. They long for the ancient days when 
life-shaped objects met every demand and they developed innovative creations to meet 
new challenges and needs. The shapers guard their knowledge closely, preserving the 
rituals necessary to work their craft with great care and devotion. 

Study and dedication are not enough to make one a life-shaper. There is a strange 
and secret initiation for candidates who wish to become life-shapers. This involves a 
process in which they immerse the aspirant in biological fluids and creation matter, in 
a life-shaped device called a womb, to see whether he or she is accepted "by the fun 
damental forces of life." Those it rejects are cast out, unconscious but still alive, while 
those accepted are sustained by the pod and live within its walls until removed. 

Once accepted, the new apprentices are allowed to begin their work, directed and 
guided by their superiors. They leave rhul-thaun society and join isolated life-shaper 
communities. The shapers are a separate subculture within rhul-thaun society. The high 
number of life-shaped grafts and additions to their bodies often identifies them. Most 
wear cosmetic skin-grafts bearing the image of a green, outstretched hand, the insignia 
of the life-shapers. 

In practice, the shapers take various protoplasmic ingredients (the most basic of 
which is called pith) and perform the rituals which instruct them in the methods that 
mold the protoplasm into the desired creation. Most components take 3 to 10 weeks to 
grow and develop, and the larger and more complex organisms can take up to a year 
to mature. 

Life-shapers work in special sanctuaries, operating in large groups. With few excep 
tions, every halfling community has a sanctuary. The shapers' work is so all-consuming 
that members normally live within these retreats, rarely leaving their labor, and out 
siders are prohibited within their walls. 

These secular monasteries are viewed by others as shrines to the power of life itself. 
Although there is no real religion, no doctrine, and certainly no religious services, 
there is no better way to describe the feeling that others have for the life-shaper pre 
serves than that of hallowed temples. 

In rhul-thaun perceptions, the life-shapers are the priests of life within their temples. 
Even those who do not hold them in high regard respect them for what they provide to 
the rest of society. The rhul-thaun know of the intelligence and dedication required to 
become a life-shaper, and admire the shapers for these traits. In the eyes of the out 
siders, they are connected with the forces of life and have a grand purpose in the 
preservation of that link. How could they not be worthy of the highest esteem? 

What few realize, however, is just how much political and social power the life- 
shapers wield. Their influence on the har-etuil is extensive. The judgment makers know 
that the life-shapers' craft holds rhul-thaun society in the collective palms-of-their- 
hands. They have told the har-etuil that they cannot only withhold new creations, but 
have assured them that they have a process by which they can ravage all existing life 
shaped objects. This is a fabrication, a lie well-guarded and secret among the ranks of 
the shapers. 

Without life-shaped creations, society would collapse-the rhul-thaun have become 
totally dependent upon the comforts they bring. Moreover, they have no way of easily 
replacing even the simple items, such as weapons, tools, or armor. The rhul-thaun 
mine no metals and have but limited access to wood, animal hides (especially without 
windrider mounts to fly down into the vertical forests to gather or hunt), and other 
basic materials necessary to create even the simplest tools and clothing. 

Further, because their creations are so vital to society, the life-shapers can charge 
whatever rates they see fit for their work. Through such financial manipulations, they 
completely, if subtly, control the rhul-thaun economy. The merchants are aware of this, 
although it is not a topic of ordinary conversation. The dealers do not want to publicly 
admit that the shapers wield so much power. 

Unlike the other professions, the life-shapers have a definite hierarchy. Their main 
sanctuary is located in Thamasku, and their leaders are the highly respected Loi Far- 
oneth and his very influential lieutenant, Gil-ogres. Below these two, each sanctuary 
has its own leader and each leader has one or two assistants. 


40 


Scholars and Teachers 

Rhul-thaun with an academic bent are given the opportunity to focus on their studies. 
These professional scholars are sponsored by the government, by individual clans, or 
work directly for the life-shapers and other organizations in a specific field of study. 

There are no libraries in rhul-thaun communities. What they call paper is really a mater 
ial more similar to cloth. A product secreted and spun by a creature grown for that pur 
pose. The substance is rolled into scrolls-never bound into books. Written works are rare 
and many rhul-thaun are only literate enough to read shop signs and the crude marks on 
the cliff walls that mark safe climbing routes. A few bright individuals keep journals and 
are accomplished readers, but there is little for even these people to read. Scholars keep 
their scrolls to themselves in private collections, hoarding them as treasures. 

These intellectuals study history, physiology, botany, zoology, meteorology, and other 
fields in order to better understand the world. The life-shapers employ some of them in 
an attempt to recover lost shaping knowledge through research, deduction, or conjec 
ture. Climbers employ scholars to make maps of the cliffs showing the best climbing 
routes. "Order is brought through understanding," states a well-known maxim, so most 
people are perfectly content to allow these intelligent women and men to attempt to 
bring more structure to their world. 

Teachers, though, seldom pursue their professions for life. It is customary for older 
men and women who have worked in other occupations to retire and become instruc 
tors of the young. Experience is a valued commodity and so these well-seasoned peo 
ple are welcomed as teachers. 

They teach the young the basics of reading and writing, but studies usually focus on 
ritual, history, and even such esoteric subjects as ethics and philosophy. Educators also 
tutor their students in practical skills such as climbing, self-defense, barter, and han 
dling the life-shaped creations that fill their lives. There are no formal schools, how 
ever. Instead, teachers open their homes to their pupils. They have the right to turn 
away any student for any reason-lack of discipline, overcrowding, or simple dislike. 

When an occupation is chosen, the students usually leave their instructors to learn 
specific skills from someone who works in a desired field. Teachers start the process 
and often attempt to guide students into professions that suit the intelligence and tem 
perament of each child. 

Tenders 

The most common profession is that of tender. These are the people who are responsi 
ble for life-shaped creatures once they have been created and have matured. Those 
who become tenders are usually caring, nurturing sorts who prefer occupations with 
fewer risks than those who climb the cliffs, dance up walls, and ride the winds. 

Tenders are not life-shapers but rather shepherds of their strange flocks. Many of the 
life-shaped creations need to be cared for when placed into service, whether the needs 
are simple watering and feeding or more specialized treatment. Many are plant-based 
in nature and require farm care, while others display the characteristics of animals and 
need to be tended as a guard might care for a herd. The needs and requirements of 
shaped creations vary considerably. For example, the creatures that produce leathery or 
wooly coats need to be sheared, while those that produce fruit-like growths need to be 
watered, pruned, and harvested. 

Tenders generally work alone, taking on only as much responsibility as they can 
handle by themselves. Their work can normally be done at home with a minimum of 
tools. Food and water for their charges are their only expenses. They make their money 
by selling the products of their charges (usually food, leathers, hides, and special medi 
cines) to merchants for resale. 

Merchants also buy life-shaped tools and building materials directly from the life- 
shapers, but these do not need to be tended. 

Windancers 

Fearless and colorful performers, windancers are at the heart and spirit of rhul-thaun 
society. They embody both the structure of ritual and freedom from its constraints. 

41 


Windancers are always self-taught and never recruit, for they believe that the spirit of 
the wind and the passion of the dance must reside in the heart of any would-be per 
formers. Young men and women who possess the hunger to dance on the walls of the 
world learn by observing. They begin by imitation, copying the low level tumbling 
moves of the dancers and climbing short distances. Awkward and ungainly, their desire 
soon pushes them to attempt more complex moves and higher, more exuberant sprints. 
Their progress is observed by experienced dancers and, when the time seems right, the 
older dancers invite the new ones to "join them on the roof tops." 

Windancers are highly respected members of their communities and their perfor 
mances are expected on all major occasions and appreciated when they are merely 
spontaneous. 

These dancers pride themselves on not setting fees for their appearances. Instead, 
they place open pottery vessels along the streets over which they flit and frolic, making 
their living from the voluntary contributions of enraptured audiences. 

Some windancers add storytelling, song, or mime to their acts, the conclusions 
always leading to a point where they leap into air and begin their rise to the pinnacles. 

Unique among the rhul-thaun, the dancers wear costumes and paint their faces and 
grafts. This is in part tradition, but it is also because windancers are drawn from all 
classes of society-even a few life-shapers hide beneath the colorful paint and harle 
quin costumes of the windancers. 

Windriders 

The rivals of the climbers are the windriders. These brave men and women are some of 
the most esteemed and envied people in all of rhul-thaun society. Many young half- 
lings dream of riding the winds that flow along the cliffs and drifting through the 
clouds of mist. They thrill at the freedom and peace of flying, unfettered by the shack 
les of gravity. 

The living creatures the windriders use are among the most difficult and time-con 
suming creations of the life-shapers. Because of this, those who possess the potential to 
become windriders are observed closely, tested, and trained very carefully. Only the 
most able and talented are allowed to join the select ranks of this unique company. 

Training takes almost two years. Anyone who wishes to become a windrider must 
first find a teacher willing to train a newcomer in the rigors of the craft. The student 
usually pays the teacher, although other arrangements can be made. There are no train 
ing guidelines and no official method of measurement once a student has learned the 
necessary skills. However, it is in the teacher's best interest to train the student as best 
he can and reject those who cannot handle the responsibilities-because a mentor is 
forever accountable for the actions of his apprentices. The windrider's associates moni 
tor the performance of a master's pupils and they can remove careless or dangerous 
proteges. Their opinions mean a great deal. 

Once young hopefuls are declared windriders, they are allowed to wear the cos 
metic graft showing that they have earned the right to soar the skies. The light blue 
graft is in the shape of a flying bird. For every five years a windrider plies his craft, he 
earns a new graft in a deeper shade of blue. The oldest and most experienced among 
them wear grafts so dark they appear to be black. 

Despite the fact that there seems to be a rigid structure among them, the windriders 
have no guild organization-there is no leader and no special regulations. There is, 
however, an oath that is sworn when they learn the craft, and that they follow closely. 
The creed swears to the importance of skill, acknowledges the value of their mounts, 
and pledges duty while on accepted missions. If a windrider does not maintain the 
tenets of his oath, there is no official method, no authority to correct or punish a viola 
tor. This is the duty of his peers. The threat of ridicule, reprimand, or forcible removal 
by fellow windriders is usually enough to preserve their honor. 

Windriders often work in teams of two to eight. In the case of the larger flying beasts, 
the riders always work in teams, since the great creatures cannot be handled by single 
riders. Each individual or team is free to establish fees for services. 

Like climbers, windriders have three established duties to perform, and, while some 
may prefer one task to another, there are no specialists. Harvesters fly down to the ver 
tical forests and load their mounts with important wild plants used for food, spices, 


42 


medicines, and construction materials. The largest single advantage that these windrid- 
ers have over climbers is that they can carry a great deal more back to the villages. 

Hunting from the backs of flying beasts is difficult, but often rewarding. Using ranged 
weapons, they can bring down prey without a windrider ever getting near dangerous 
claws or slashing teeth. More large carcasses can be carried back to a settlement on the 
flying beasts than on climbers' backs. Because of the dangerous nature of some of the 
creatures that dwell on the Jagged Cliffs, however, no hunting expedition is ever without 
risk. The ranged psionic abilities of many monsters (such as gaj) and attacks from other 
flying creatures (like razorwings or pterrax), can easily mean death for a windrider and 
his mount. Monsters with ranged attacks, like the cha'thrang, are also a serious threat. 

The final responsibility of the windriders is the transportation of cargo and people from 
one community to another. The gon-evauth, the largest windrider mount (also known as 
a soar whale), is generally employed to haul heavy cargo and large numbers of passen 
gers. Since hauling is the safest and most common use of the windriders' services, many 
riders restrict their services to moving goods and people as much as possible. 

Messages are also considered cargo. This is the most rapid method of communica 
tions among the rhul-thaun, particularly when a windrider uses a ber-ethern, the small 
est and swiftest of the life-shaped flying mounts. 

Obviously, there is a great deal of competition between windriders and climbers, 
since both occupations have a similar focus. The windriders can do anything the 
climbers can do and do it faster and deliver larger payloads. Windriders can handle 
more cargo, harvest more plants, and take bigger game. Nevertheless, there are far 
more climbers than windriders, and their rates are much lower. Then too, climbers 
hunt rarer plants and more exotic game animals-they seek quality not quantity. 

Other Occupations 

While rhul-thaun society differs from most other cultures, traditional occupations are 
also important on the Jagged Cliffs. Merchants, for example, drive the economy, buying 
and selling merchandise of all sorts, purchasing the wares of the life-shapers, har 
vesters, hunters, tenders, and craftspeople and selling them in the village marketplaces 
throughout the Jagged Cliffs. Others who are not merchants choose to sell their own 
goods, but most enjoy the convenience of the intermediaries, and do not care what 
they make in profits. 

Craftspeople, such as stone masons, leather workers, tailors, potters, and cobblers 
work with a variety of materials to produce necessary, if mundane, items. Except for 
stone masons and potters, who work with only the most basic materials (remember the 
rhul-thaun do not mine, quarry, or smelt precious metals or minerals), most of the 
craftspeople work with substances produced through life-shaping. The life-shapers have 
creations, cared for by tenders, which produce leathery hides, silks, wool, and other 
fibers. Crafters use these fabrics to make clothing, shoes, belts, tack and harness, bags, 
rope, and similar goods. Artisans dealing in nonorganic materials produce stone tools 
and weapons, dishes, pottery, and decorative items. 

Food is normally prepared in the home, but there is still a need for cooks and bakers 
to produce bread, cheese, and the hot meals sold in the marketplace. Taverns and inns, 
called safehomes, also require cooks to produce meals for travelers. Brewers produce 
beer, ale, and other alcoholic beverages from life-shaped ingredients. The rhul-thaun 
have no wineries. 

Entertainment is an important aspect of life in rhul-thaun settlements and actors, 
comedians, singers, dancers, and (most importantly) tale-tellers hold respectable posi 
tions. Much of the culture's history and tradition is maintained by tale-tellers and the 
stories passed on during family tale-telling. 

Finally, clerks, accountants, tax collectors, and other government administrative posi 
tions are available to those seeking employment. These jobs garner little respect, but 
the har-etuil make sure that those who take them are well paid. 

Because the rhul-thaun do not need metal (and even in the cliffs there is precious lit 
tle of it), there are no halfling miners or smiths. Likewise, there is little need for those 
who can work with wood, since anything a carpenter could make can be better grown 
by the life-shapers-even buildings are created with their amazing skills. Woodcrafted 
items are but novelties at best. 


43 


Sinister Work 


Not all of the rhul-thaun are willing to content themselves with mundane professions, 
choosing instead to operate outside clan-law as thieves, hired thugs, extortionists, spies, 
even professional killers. Many of these criminals hold other occupations as "covers," 
while others exist completely beyond the constraints of normal society. 

Although these individuals usually act alone, some communities are plagued with 
organized groups of thieves and thugs who serve corrupt masters. They have a compli 
cated network (often operating between communities) of thieves, climbers, and windrid- 
ers for communication and transport, merchants who are willing to sell stolen goods 
and "protection" in the form of well-armed warriors. One very powerful company is the 
Ban-ghesh in Thamasku. This is a wealthy, powerful assembly of criminals who are 
involved in virtually every aspect of life in that city. 

The obvious enemies of the criminal organizations are the lawkeepers. While most 
solitary thieves do their utmost to avoid them, the well-armed forces of the master crimi 
nals often clash violently with the vher-elus. 

One final issue concerning the rhul-thaun underground and their illicit activities that 
must be discussed is the Chahn. This radical party includes revolutionaries who wish to 
overthrow rhul-thaun society. The members of the Chahn do not hesitate to use violence 
to achieve their goals-in fact, the utter sanctity of life is one of the societal values that 
most of them reject. Yet, this group also claims those who are merely discontented 
youth. The malcontents don't want to see any blood shed, but they do feel that drastic 
changes are necessary in rhul-thaun government and society. They reject ritual, isola 
tionism, clan-rule, and virtually every other traditional aspect of rhul-thaun culture. 
Despite the nonviolent nature of some members (a fact most ordinary people refuse to 
accept), the vher-elus have branded the Chahn a threat of the highest magnitude and 
the general population lives in fear of these radical terrorists. 

Architecture 

Virtually without exception, the halflings' buildings are life-shaped constructs. This 
means that their structures are grown rather than built.. Because they are organic, rhul- 
thaun buildings have smooth, curved surfaces without angles or corners. In addition, the 
rhul-thaun preoccupation with vertical thinking means that most structures are taller 
than they are wide. When it is time to expand a community, it is more common for the 
life-shapers to grow new compositions on top of old ones rather than expanding the set 
tlement horizontally into new territory. 

A halfling village or town, therefore, consists of tall, shapely towers, many of which 
take the form of elongated teardrops. Others are round and flattened pods, stacked one 
on top of the other, high into the air. Another favorite design is that of a dome with a 
round top, a conical tower capping it. All buildings have smooth, rounded contours and 
an organic feel. 

Doorways, windows, inner rooms, and halls are circular. The interiors of the buildings 
are so organic in appearance and feel that outsiders may feel uncomfortable, the resem 
blance to being inside an actual creature is so real (and usually, that is true). Doors are 
usually round and have organic locks. 

There are two kinds of life-shaped formations. The first are those grown from an 
organic, porous-stone material called nen. This ancient matter has a consistency much 
like a deep sea sponge (and in fact, the rhulisti discovered this organic stone aeons ago 
at the bottom of the sea). When a nen building is completed, however, the nen itself 
ceases to live in the truest sense and remains as it was shaped. Legends say that when 
the rhulisti used this material, it scintillated with all the colors of the spectrum in a con 
stant and beautiful display. This no longer true, nen is simply dirty white in color today. 

The second, less common structural material is called rahn-rath. While rahn-rath is a 
more recent development, it is still ancient. This medium was first created by the rhulisti 
at the end of the Blue Age, unlike nen, which was the first organic material they shaped. 

The difference between this substance and nen is that rahn-rath remains alive even 
after the structure is completely grown. It must be planted in fertile soil, tended, and 

exposed to moisture. Because it is still living, it can be slowly, carefully reshaped as 


44 


needed. This process requires the skills of an experienced tender, the advice of a life- 
shaper, and takes several weeks to complete. 

If a rahn-rath building is "slain," which, except for total destruction by fire or crush 
ing, usually only happens through starvation, the material hardens and crumbles within 
three to four weeks. Therefore, these buildings are more risky to grow and require much 
more attention. 

Rahn-rath can be altered while it is growing so that it secretes a powerful adhesive. 

This is done to create cliff houses, which are structures that literally cling to the sides of 
the cliff. These have the advantage of taking up little or no ledge space. They do require 
ladders, swings, or bridges to get to them, however. 

Both types of organic materials are as rugged as stone, with a close cohesiveness that 
completely prevents crumbling. A well cared for rahn-rath building, besides all of that, 
repairs minor damage simply by healing normally. Windows and doors consist of the 
same material as the rest of the structure, although windows are transparent forms of 
nen or rahn-rath. 

A Day in the Life 

Tel-amen woke early. She glanced out the window as she performed a quick waking rit 
ual. The crimson sun shone through the thick mist that cloaked the village. As always, a 
wall of mist filtered the sun's rays, casting a pinkish glow on the street below. She could 
see the house across the way, but the haze hampered her vision beyond that point. 

Already there were people on the street, including old Rev-onim, the pastry merchant 
who hawked his wares on this street every morning. She also saw Don-osith of the vher- 
elus on patrol. Invariably, he looked handsome with his shaped warstaff held proudly at 
his side. The other people on the street nodded and waved their hands in rituals of 
friendly respect. 

Tel-amen dressed and hurried down to the level below to eat breakfast before the rest 
of her family began to rise. This was certainly not a common practice, but today was 
special. Her meal consisted of bread and cheese made from life-shaped creatures and 
growths and some wild berries that her climber uncle had gathered in the nearby verti 
cal forest, She ate hurriedly and rushed out of the house. 

The streets were filling with people as she hurried through the forming crowds. Her 
destination was the home of her teacher, Ril-onev. Since he was quite wealthy after a 
life of windriding, his home was high above the level of her own family's dwelling. Tel- 
amen climbed more ladders and stairs than she walked streets in order to complete her 
journey. 

She arrived at Ril-onev's home and, even in her hurry, paused to take in the view 
around her. From this height, she could see the entire Village of Glerran and much of 
the cliffs face before the mist obscured her vision. Taking a deep breath of the warm, 
moist air, she entered the house. 

Today was the day of her final testing. Today she would take the ber-ethern out on her 
own. Tel-amen would finally ride the winds of the cliffs alone, soaring through the mists 
using only her own skills and knowledge. 

She performed the rite of entering as she crossed the threshold. Ril-onev was still fin 
ishing his morning meal, but greeted her with the solemn ritual of greeting. He was 
always very formal on occasions of importance. Though it was not discernible from his 
appearance, he was four times the age of Tel-amen and long-retired from his days as a 
windrider. She noted that Ril-onev still wore his rich, dark blue graft, revealing him to 
be an accomplished rider of long service. 

"Are you prepared?" he asked. 

Tel-amen gathered her courage. "Yes. " 

"Then let's go. The wind is an impatient ally," 

Ril-onev led her out onto the balcony on the other side of his home. The ber-ethern 
waited to be given a command, mindless in its servitude. Its thin membranous wings 
quivered slightly in the breeze, the only indication that the giant insect was truly real. 
Behind the creature's wings, its carapace dipped slightly and then rose quite sharply 
where the life-shapers had fashioned a saddle-seat for the ber-ethern's single rider, 

Ril-onev walked up to the beast and attached a clingbag to its side. Inside, he 

45 


explained, was an important message that needed to be delivered to a climber's camp 
that lay south and below Glerran. Tel-amen nodded as she attached a clingbag to her 
side containing a small meal and some water for the trip. The mission would take until 
sunset, according to Ril-onev. 

As she approached her mount, both halflings recited the mantra of the windrider. Tel- 
amen climbed atop the creature as she spoke. When she was finished, she glanced at 
Ril-onev, who backed away and nodded formally. Without another word, she signaled 
the breeze-sprite to take to the air. 

Instantly, the creature lifted Tel-amen off the balcony and soared over the village. 

From her vantage, she could see the community and the sprawling mass of organic 
structures that comprised it. The smooth, rounded shapes of the multitude of towers 
reminded her of a patch of fungus one might find growing on the side of a rock. 

Almost instantly, however, her awareness of Glerran below was consumed by the 
thrill of taking to the skies. No longer a slave to the cliffs she could move as she 
pleased, without scrambling over the rocks like a lizard. Tel-amen, the windrider, was 
free at last. 

Language 

"The spoken word empowers us, allowing us to impose structure upon the cacophony 
of life. Our language is order given voice.'' 

- Ther-onos, renowned har-etuil of centuries past 

The language of the rhul-thaun is directly descended from the speech of the ancient 
rhulisti. Time has modified the language, but it still sounds like its forbearer. Both are 
breathy, elegant tongues, pleasant to virtually every ear. To represent the breathy forms 
of the spoken language, an "h" is often inserted between a consonant and vowel when 
words are written. 

Naming 

The rhul-thaun assign short, simple words to uncomplicated actions, minor concepts, 
and things of little significance, while important words are longer and more elegant. 
Combining two or more existing words easily forms new words, and in particular 
names, usually manipulating them slightly so that they follow a set pattern: the first syl 
lable of a new word is stressed and begins and ends in a sounded consonant while the 
second begins with a softer vowel. The vowel tone is added to the beginning of the syl 
lable, determined by the gender of the named person or object: 

male o neuter e 

female a revered u 

The "revered" gender is a special case. Certain things, especially ideas, in rhul-thaun 
society are particularly respected or revered (or simply feared). These include life, pur 
pose, the elements, and nature. 

Inanimate objects and unintelligent creatures are always considered neuter. Certain 
concepts or terms without gender, such as the name of their race or the names of 
places, sometimes do not have the sounded vowel inserted at all. There is no rule for 
when the vowel is to be dropped entirely, so this varies from case to case. A tendency 
to drop the neuter "e" sound has developed in recent years, and eventually it will 
probably be lost from the language. 

Rhul-thaun names are usually formed by combining two existing words to describe 
that which is being designated. For example, those in charge of keeping law and order 
are the vher-elus, or lawkeepers. 

It is common for an object, idea, or even a person to have more than one name. 
Multiple names describe different aspects of the same thing, and thus are all equally 
valid and accurate. Usually, however, once a name comes into common usage, popu 
lar consensus determines which name is most frequently used. 


46 


Terms Used to Create Names 


The following list of 

simple 

rhul-thaun 

words can 

be combined, 

, using 

the rules 

to create 

names. 







Bal 

Strong 

Gon 

Soar 

Naer 

Leg 

Sul 

Swift 

Ban 

Dark 

Goth 

Wealth 

Neg 

Courage 

Taen 

Long 

Bech 

Voice 

Han 

Great 

Nish 

Male 

Ter 

Day 

Dar 

Bright 

Har 

Judge 

Noar 

Hear 

Thar 

Fight 

Dern 

Eye 

Heon 

Slow 

Nos 

Dance 

Ther 

Dream 

Dhev 

Race (of 

Jiun 

Distant 

Pav 

Take 

Thaun 

Cliff 


speed) 

Kuhv 

Hand 

Pish 

Beast 

Tosh 

Storm 

Fen 

Charm 

Lahr 

Seek 

Pur 

Calm 

Tuil 

Make 

Fin 

Fly 

Lech 

Back 

Rath 

Shape 

Val 

Female 

Furth 

Ride 

Lind 

Tend 

Rean 

Arm 

Vher 

Law 

Futh 

Stride 

Lus 

Keep 

Ruth 

Sturdy 

Vios 

Love 

Ghav 

Life 

Mak 

Hunt 

Sach 

Teach 

Wir 

Wind 

Ghesh 

Wise 

Moar 

Plant 

Sahr 

City 

Yihn 

Climb 

Ghoun 

Beautiful 

Mus 

Hair 

Ser 

Master 

Zohr 

Talent 


Typical Rhul-thaun Names 


Male: 

Bal-orean 

Bal-olech 

Dhev-ovaun 

Ser-ogoth 

Thar-osul 


Strong arms 
Strong back 
Cliff racer 
Master of wealth 
Swift fighter 


Female: 

Fen-aghoun 

Yihn-aruth 

Wir-avios 

Val-agoth 


Beautiful charmer 
Sturdy climber 
Wind lover 
Wealthy woman 


Clan Names 

Beyond these given names, every individual can also join the name of his clan to the 
end of his own. Thus, Val-agoth becomes Val-agoth of Taen, or simply Val-agoth Taen. 
The clan designators are used less today since the importance of the clan has declined 
in modern rhul-thaun society. 

The clan names are too numerous to list here, but all are short, one-syllable rhulisti 
names like Bein, Glahr, Taen, and Sul. 

Special Personal Names 

In extremely rare cases, those who achieve a level of greatness far beyond that of their 
peers are allowed to drop their clan names and take on special 
personal names, in effect becoming a clan of one. High Lord 
Rhan Thes-onel is the most widely-known individual with 
this designator. Loi Far-oneth, director of the life- 
shapers, is the only living person with a special personal 
name. In modern society, an individual is only allowed 
to take on such a name if the Conclave gives permission. 




47 




Important Terms 

The following list of the terms and names are frequently used in this book. They are 
important to know when discussing the rhul-thaun. Their literal meanings are given first, 
and then full definitions or explanations are presented. 

ban-ghesh, dark wisdom. A guild of criminals in Thamasku. 
ber-ethern, breeze sprite. The smallest of the life-shaped windriding mounts, 
cam-rahn, nourishing gift. The organic nourishment fed to life-shaped creations, 
chahn, freedom. A group of revolutionaries, terrorists and discontents who wish to radi 
cally change rhul-thaun society. 

dhev-sahr, city racer. A swift, four-legged, life-shaped creature used as a mount in 
Thamasku. 

ghav-egoth, life wealth. A small life-shaped oval coin used as currency by the rhul- 
thaun. 

ghav-nosh, life takers. Professional assassins in the employ of the life-shapers. 

ghav-urath, life-shaper. One of the keepers of the ancient knowledge of life-shaping. 

gon-evauth, soar-whale. The largest of the life-shaped mounts. 

har-etuil, judgment-maker. One of the judges/rulers of rhul-thaun society. Each serves 

and rules his own clan and meets in a council to make decisions for all rhul-thaun. 

lor-rahn, bath of nourishment. The solution in which all life-shaped creations formed 

from actual living tissue should be soaked and stored. 

rhin-noss, the Rite of Beginning. The ritual of naming after a child's birth. 

rhul-thaun, people of the cliffs. The halflings of the Jagged Cliffs. 

rhulisti, the people. The ancient halflings from which the rhul-thaun are descended. 

ven-pahr, hated destroyers. One name for the reggelids, an evil, magical race of the 

Jagged Cliffs. 

vher-etuil, law keeper. One of the military constables who keep peace, law, and order 
in rhul-thaun communities, 
wir-enos, windancer. 

wir-efurth, windrider 
yhin-e, climber 

yihn-eflan, gust climber. A medium size life-shaped mount. 

Other Languages 

Most of the halflings of the Jagged Cliffs do not speak any language but their own. 
Multilingual rhul-thaunians are extremely rare. Since their contact with the outside 
world is slight, there is little need to learn other tongues. In fact, the opportunity to 
study a language other than their own virtually never presents itself. 

Although numerous halfling adventurers have dared to enter the land to the west and 
spy upon the activities of the thri-kreen, none of them have attempted to learn the 
insects' language. Admittedly, it is an alien language and difficult for noninsects to try to 
decipher. 

No halfling has ever deciphered the language of the reggelids, the "hated destroyers," 
that evil, magical race of the Jagged Cliffs. A few of those living in the village of Vir-rath 
have learned a smattering of the bvanen tongue spoken by their neighbors to the north 
of the cliffs. Likewise, some in Sahr-tosh have learned to speak a bit of the pterran lan 
guage spoken by the infrequent and mysterious traders who appear out of the mists and 
vanish again. The inhabitants of these two villages have found that understanding these 
languages is beneficial, though the halflings, as a rule, avoid all other cultures. 

Newcomers to the Jagged Cliffs will find their own language, Common, is a derivative 
of the same tongue as rhul-thaun, but mutated to a much greater extent, having become 
rougher and more guttural as words, constructions, and idioms changed. Still, those 
who attempt to communicate unaided by a tongues spell or similar aids find that about 
10% of their thoughts can still be understood by their listeners, and vice versa. Such 
conversations are difficult and clumsy and often require repeating the same message fre 
quently, rephrasing continually 


48 


Wanderer's 
Journal 

Though many believe this 
entire world to be a dry 
and desolate place-a 
desert without borders, 
eternally blowing sand 
and dust across a bar 
ren, near lifeless land 
scape -/ know it to be a 
place of infinite variety. 

No more definitive proof 
exists than the sight which 
greets the eyes of a traveler 
reaching the 
Jagged Cliffs 
for the first 
time. 

If the veil of 
mist is thin, 
one can see 
the cliffs 
below them 
and perhaps 
even catch a 
glimpse of a 
halfling vil 
lage nestled 
into the face 

of the stone like the lair of some 
rock-dwelling lizard. If the veil is 
completely parted, the endless 
savanna presents itself; rolling off 
to the ends of the world where, 
so whispered tales rarely told, 
even among the mantis warriors 
that live there, lies a great body 
of water. The 
kreen have 
forged a 
great empire 
for them 
selves, one which claws even 
now at the Jagged Cliffs looking 
for a way to scale the heights to 
conquer the Tablelands above 
them. 

At the base of the cliffs is a 
swamp so dark and dismal that 
experienced travelers know that 
nature had little to do with its 
formation. Rhul-thaun tales tell 
of horrors beyond reckoning or 
recognition that rise from this 
bog to threaten their villages. 

The halflings truly live on a 
border that separates two com 
pletely different worlds. 



CHMER4: 



Life on the Ledge 


Although the rhul-thaun are not an expansionist people and have no real military, the 
area controlled by them is quite extensive. Well over 500 miles of the Jagged Cliffs' 
face is dotted with their cities, villages, settlements, and camps. Most of these are small 
bivouacs of less than a dozen inhabitants, living on the tiny ledges of the cliffs. The vil 
lages found on larger, wider ledges have much larger populations. This section presents 
descriptions of some of these communities. They are listed here in order of size from 
the largest city, Thamasku, to the smallest camp. 

Organization 

The har-etuil Conclave rules over all of the rhul-thaun, making decisions that affect the 
lives of every citizen. Each city, village, or settlement consists of a limited number of 
clans, and the har-etuil of these clans form governments when they are needed. 

Nevertheless, each community has an administrator. This person, chosen by the local 
har-etuil, oversees the day-to-day operations of the district, including local law enforce 
ment, tax collecting, road maintenance, and all other details of civic life. 

Every administrator, as well as each har-etuil, keeps in close contact with the others, 
using windriding messengers to relay information. Thus, while each clan and commu 
nity is autonomous, the entire rhul-thaun society is closely linked. Each individual 
owes allegiance first to his clan and community, but after that, they all share a sense of 
loyalty to the race. Even the Chahn act out the same sense of fealty to the rhul-thaun as 
a people. 

News and rumors travel with surprising speed along the cliffs. Important events in 
one community are soon heard throughout the cliffs within two to three days. Major 
disasters usually summon voluntary assistance from neighboring communities, for the 
halflings consider all of their kind as kin. 


49 


Thamasku 

The streets bustle with harried shoppers, merchants, and lawkeepers. A long-legged 
dhev-sahr carries two males wearing life-shaper grafts through the crowd, its normally 
rapid pace hindered by the thick swarm of people. The shapers should have known not 
to try to cross the city at midday. 

A heady odor of life fills the city, despite the most sophisticated waste disposal sys 
tem of all rhul-thaun settlements (and probably all of Athas). Certain areas of the city 
are overcrowded, and the life-shapers are constantly occupied growing new buildings 
and elevating existing ones, raising the wealthier upper classes higher above the noise 
and smell of the lower city. 

Spires and towers reach up to the hazy sky, and the summit of the tallest of them 
allows one to see all the way across Ghavin Lake. Even the smaller towers give a clear 
view of the caravans going in and out of the forest that surrounds the city and the lake. 

A Windrider's Chronicle 

Thamasku is the single exception to many rhul-thaun rules. While most halfling com 
munities are villages on the ledges and in the crevices along the cliff side, Thamasku is 
a bustling city of 12,000 inhabitants, on a lake in the middle of a forest. 

The city was built in the center of a large ledge, carved out of the side of the cliffs by 

tidal waters when the world was young. This shelf stretches back 80 miles from the 
edge of the cliff, and most of it is covered with large, hardwood trees and thick foliage. 
Runoff from the tablelands to the east collects in Ghavin Lake, a body of clear, fresh 
water almost 20 miles across. A wide river runs from the lake to the cliff's edge, then 
crashes over the side, creating what the largest and most dramatic waterfall on Athas. 
The waterfall empties into the swamp at the bottom of the cliffs, contributing to the ris 
ing wall of mist. 

Thamasku is extremely ancient, built before the rhul-thaun existed as a separate 
group-when the rhulisti ruled the world. The name Thamasku is an ancient rhulisti 

word. Indeed, so archaic is that name that its actual meaning is lost. Scholars are fairly 

sure it has something to do with great altitude. Since those long-lost days, halflings 
who have taken advantage both of the lake and the surrounding forest have occupied 
the city. 

Thamasku actually has a few buildings made of stone and wood, in addition to the 
organically grown towers that fill most of its streets. The halflings ply the waters of 
Ghavin Lake with boats made of wood, since the ability to create life-shaped water 
craft is now a lost art. They catch fish in organic trap-nets, providing a delicacy virtu 
ally unknown to the rest of the halflings of the Jagged Cliffs. 

The city is also unusual in its horizontal nature. The effects of living on cliff ledges 
that influence other rhul-thaun are not in evidence here. Climbers are few, though 
there are many of them in Sol-fehn at the top of the falls. There are a few in Thamasku, 
however, who scale the cliffs up to the edge of the Tablelands. 

The city's life-shapers use their skills to make running creatures called dhev-sahr and 
the halflings use them as mounts to travel through the forest and the green. Dhev-sahr 
are of little use anywhere else in the Jagged Cliffs. 

Thamasku is more spread out and more horizontal in its orientation than any of the 
other halfling communities. The towers and spires common to all settlements are there, 
but so are single-story buildings, long and wide, primarily used as store houses on the 
edge of the city. Given the proportions of normal halfling communities, Thamasku 
should cover only half of the land it does and stand over twice as high. Given the limi 
tations of even the amazing life-shaped building materials, this would be a physical 
impossibility-one that will always prevent the villages of the ledges from getting sub 
stantially larger than they are at present. 

Leadership and Political Organization 

The position of city administrator of Thamasku is one of the most politically powerful 
appointments anyone can possibly hope to hold. Currently, Vher-asach (haf/TIO/LN), 
the young but capable daughter of the former administrator holds the office. The har- 


50 


etuil actually nominated her to the position only as a tribute to her dead mother, who 
served the city well. They expected that she would remain only a short while, and then 
a more experienced person would be chosen to replace her. However, Vher-asach is 
more than competent in the job, and it appears that she will continue as administrator 
for the foreseeable future. 

Nowhere in the Jagged Cliffs is clan affiliation as significant as it is in this city. There 
are 28 different clans in Thamasku, and 37 har-etuil who serve and govern them. This 
is far more than in any other rhul-thaun community, but overall, the numbers do not 
present problems. Occasionally there are periods of clan strife, when one clan is 
offended or somehow challenged by another, but these are usually settled peacefully. 

The life-shapers, who are called life-masters here, wield a great deal of political 
power and influence in Thamasku. Despite the fact that woodsmen bring in timber to 
use as an alternate building material, and hunters and gatherers use the nearby forests 
to provide more food and herbs than in other rhul-thaun communities, the life-shapers 
are kept busy meeting the needs of the city's huge population. Vher-asach learned from 
her mother long ago of the importance of the shapers, and almost always bows to their 
wishes. In return, however, her shrewd dealings with the wealthy life-masters have gar 
nered enough money and life-shaped creations to provide the city with conveniences 
and necessities the government otherwise might not have been able to grant. 

A secret guild of thieves and assassins, known as the ban-ghesh (dark wisdom), also 
has some political clout in Thamasku. Their wealth allows them to pay off the authori 
ties, giving them virtually total control over some of the lower parts of the city. In 
Thamasku, wealth speaks with power and influence. 

Sol-fehn, at the top of the waterfall created by the river flowing from Ghavin Lake, is 
virtually an outlying quarter of Thamasku. It is a small village, with a population of less 
than 300 people, all of whom make their living in the transport of cargo, people, or 
information to and from Thamasku. Sol-fehn serves as a connection to the rest of the 
rhul-thaunian society. Its administrator, Rath-omak (ham/F5/LN), answers directly to 
Vher-asach. He does whatever the administrator of Thamasku tells him to do. 

Moreover, the village is primarily populated by members of two clans that chiefly 
reside in the larger city, so this village does not even have its own har-etuil. 

Economics 

Because wealth is more important than anything else in this city of commerce, every 
one is deeply involved in economics and trade. Because of the city's unique location, 
products such as fish and woodcrafted articles are among some of the items available 
here that cannot be purchased in other communities. At the same time, however, there 
is little call for these items elsewhere, so there are virtually no exports to the other 
communities of the cliffs. 

The exception to this is the village Sol-fehn, to which Thamasku sends food, life 
shaped creations, and various goods that the smaller community does not produce. 
Sol-fehn is almost solely involved in transportation and related occupations, making it 
the hub of travel and transport between Thamasku and other locales. 

Within Thamasku itself, there are three marketplaces where various merchants sell 
their wares. Although created as a convenience, so that everyone in the city would be 
close to a market, each of the three has taken on a distinctive flavor and style. The 
southern market, also known as the fish market, primarily sells fresh fish and other 
foodstuffs. Though the other two marketplaces do sell provisions, the freshest, best 
quality items are found here. The western market is controlled almost completely by 
life-masters. The merchants here sell life-shaped creations of every description to all 
who need them. The eastern market is a craft faire. Artwork, woodcrafts, stonework, 
pottery, and other crafted items and supplies are found in great numbers. No finer mer 
chandise of this kind can be found anywhere on the cliffs. 

The whole eastern district of Sol-fehn is called the Art Quarter, and it is filled with 
galleries, studios, theaters, and related businesses. There are few centers of culture in 
all of Athas that can rival the talents found here. 


51 



CD-& 


?. Yhe*""lu0 ciam'*on 
ICJ vin-flrad wood^orta 


(c) - A 

S-frA 

o - cm 


IE. Th< WitorTflnpl* 
It, joutisrn 
ft. "H(jm Market 
|+. S-aBbam Market 
faircj 


51 






The People 

Thamasku is the center of rhul-thaun society. The wealthiest rhul-thaun live in this city, 
although there are plenty of common and poor folk within its confines as well. 

The people of Thamasku find themselves spending less time struggling to survive than 
most other rhul-thaun, less in fact than most of Athas's inhabitants. The city's size reduces 
the risk of monster attacks, provides a vast range of conveniences and services, and gener 
ally means that citizens have better access to health care and finer food. Life-shaped 
engines pump water from the lake into the city, bringing it indoors to every home and 
building. The life-masters have also set up an incredible waste disposal system with under 
ground conduits, regulated by organic water-pumping engines, and life-shaped disposal 
units that consume trash and all manner of wastes. The city's systems of water delivery and 
garbage elimination makes Thamasku a clean and comfortable place in which to live. 

Because the people of Thamasku have a great deal of leisure time, theater and the arts 
are more prevalent here than in other communities. Music and the artistic expression 
are important to all rhul-thaun, but here in Thamasku they are taken to new heights. 
Fantastic galleries, theaters, and music halls line the Art Quarter. Dancing, music, visual 
arts, theater, tale-telling, and other performance arts are all practiced here. Young and 
old, rich and poor, life-master and city laborers find entertainments and amusements to 
suit their tastes. Poets, songwriters, composers, artists, and performers can make their 
livelihood creating art and diversions for the people of the city. In Thamasku, the arts are 
not idle pastimes, but rather big businesses. 

Many of the halflings who travel to the city eventually end up deciding to live here, 
prompting the saying that you can take the villager out of the heart of Thamasku, but 
you can't take Thamasku out of the heart of the villager. 

Most of those who come to the city seek recreation, dining, and living opportunities 
that exist nowhere else. Others, however, have a very different reaction. They believe 
that "stout and hearty" folk live only on the ledges. The lives of "true rhul-thaun" should 
be spent in the cloying mists and blustering winds of the ledges, clinging to the cliff 
faces that they call home, carving out their lives with bare hands. They view their city 
cousins with great disdain, sometimes calling them "shaped rhul-thaun." 

And some who come to Thamasku from the villages find the city too exposed, too spa 
cious. The villagers are used to the secluded, protected ledges of the cliffs. The fact that the 
city is in the center of a green, flat expanse of land is disorienting and frightening to them. 

Places of Note 

The Air Temple: The largest of the rare temples of the rhul-thaun, the air temple is in the 
lofty reaches of the city's sprawling towers. This temple is the home and base of opera 
tions of over a dozen priests (13 ham & haf/P1-6/NG). Thim-obec leads the temple 
(ham/P12/NG). The few devout followers in the city come here to pay their respects, but 
this priest's real duty is to the windriders. 

The air temple serves as a place where windriders can find berths for their mounts to 
roost and be cared for as well as free food and lodging for their flyers and themselves. 

The priests feel that windriding is the best technique of truly communing with the great 
power of elemental air, and therefore windriders are holy men to be respected. Ironically, 
none of the priests are windriders themselves-they see their own role as caretakers. 

Air priests have little interaction with the rest of the community. The temple takes no 
official interest in politics, community action, or any of the events that develop within 
the city. 

The Aviary: This tall tower is home to the hundreds of birds that fly about the city, and 
of the strange individual known only as the Birdmaster. The tower is designed so that 
there is room for even large flying creatures to land and roost. For this reason, it is occa 
sionally used by windriders who come to the city. The Birdmaster (ham/D16/N) favors 
windriders, charging them no fees to use his roosts. 

The Birdmaster is a druid of great power who, unlike others of his profession, con 
cerns himself with the activities of a city. Fie watches over events in Thamasku, commu 
nicating with his birds psionically. They are his eyes and ears, and no one in all of 
Thamasku knows more about the comings and goings of the city's populace or of the 
things they do in secret. 


53 


Cal-adek's Safehome: This tavern is well-known throughout the city as the meeting 
place for warriors, mercenaries, and adventurers. It is also a place where spies, thieves, 
and even killers can be hired to perform less-than-legal assignments. Cal-adek 
(haf/F8/N) asks no questions of her customers, she simply demands that everyone "keep 
a peaceful head about them while they stay here." Wise customers heed this simple 
request, for Cal-adek has a fair amount of hired muscle herself (8 ham/F5/N). 

Whispers say that Cal-adek is involved in the criminal underworld of Thamasku. 

Others claim that she harbors members of the Chahn. Neither of these rumors is true, 
although at times she can be convinced to finance potentially profitable operations-the 
legal status of these endeavors is irrelevant to her. 

The Conclave: This grand structure is the meeting place of the har-etuil when they 
gather to make laws and pass judgement on matters concerning all rhul-thaun. Although 
vacant more often than it is used, a small contingent of professional warriors (20 ham & 
haf/F4/LG) are permanently stationed here to guard the structure, preserve its appear 
ance, and maintain it. 

The Mirrored Host: This tavern is an upscale safehome for those wishing a luxurious 
night's stay or an elegant meal. Mirrors, which are uncommon among these halflings, 
cover many of the interior walls, giving this place its name. 

The cost of a night's stay is 25 ghav-egoths, meals are 5 ge. 

Nuhl-ameth Storehouse: This is one of many storehouses on the outskirts of the city. It 
is also the secret headquarters of the Chahn, the terrorist organization that wants to 
overthrow and transform rhul-thaun society. 

A secret entrance in the main storage area leads to an underground labyrinthine, the 
lair of these desperate terrorists. From here they launch attacks upon the vher-elus, the 
Conclave, and even life-shapers traveling in the city. Their strikes are swift and of limited 
effect-they want to make a statement rather than inflict actual damage. The Chahn are 
careful not to allow themselves to be followed back to their base, and have successfully 
used it as their headquarters for more than a year. 

At least 50 members use this secret stronghold, including the Chahn's leader, Col-olin 
(ham/T12/CN). Col-olin is a small, angry halfling crossed too many times by the authori 
ties. He seeks destruction on a large scale, though he possesses a conscience that some 
times gets in the way of his passionate, devastating plots. 

Poets' Rest: This safehome, located in the Art Quarter, is frequented by artists and per 
formers of all kinds. The place is inexpensive and the food is of poor quality, but its 
patrons keep coming back for the atmosphere of the place. 

Sanctuary of Thamasku: Besides its status as the largest life-shaper sanctuary, this struc 
ture's unique feature is its location. It is underwater, submerged in Ghaven Lake, with 
secret entrances and exits throughout the city, connected by tunnels under the earth. 

The sanctuary lies at a depth of about 300 feet. Shaped like a mushroom, the sanctu 
ary's domed main structure narrows beneath it to form a base that is set into the lake's 
floor. The structure is alive, of course, and its gill system exchanges and filters oxygen 
and hydrogen out of the water, converting the elements to a gas that provides a livable 
atmosphere for those who live and work inside. Over 150 life-masters work here, pro 
ducing organic creations at a feverish pace to try to keep up with the city's needs. 

Loi Far-oneth (ham/FI 2/LG), the master of all life-shapers, lives and works here. He is 
a man consumed with the past, its preservation, and its effects on the present and 
future. His chief adjutant is a Gil-ogres (ham/T12/LE), who is subtly manipulating events 
to gain personal power. When the har-etuil convenes in Conclave, it is not Loi whose 
name is spoken in fearful whispers-it is Gil-ogres. Loi seems unaware of his lieu 
tenant's secret control of the organization, so preoccupied is he in scholarly pursuits. 

In Thamasku, Gil-ogres's plans are simple. The life-shapers' dominion over the build 
ings, tools and other shaped articles gives them nearly complete economic control of 
the city. The only area where they do not have actual mastery is the city's entertainment 
business. To this end, Gil-ogres is sending agents into the Ban-ghesh Guild. He wants to 
infiltrate the organization and take it over from the inside, thus adding their resources to 
his own. The guild has the strongest hold upon the entertainment district. 

The sanctuary is also the keeping place of the Dal-arat, the oldest rhulisti artifact in 
existence. This life-shaped device is actually a recorder (now impossible to recreate) that 
replays an ancient account of the beliefs and creeds of the rhulisti. 


54 


"The fundamental forces of life, being what they are, have left us with no other 
option . ... We are both the masters of the world and its passionate servants. Let that 
forever be our creed and our vow." 

Vher-elus Garrison: This small fortress has a garrison of more than 150 lawkeepers 
(ham & haf/F4/LG). From here, they patrol the city and respond to reports of trouble. In 
times of great need, they can call upon an organized, voluntary militia of over 200 
additional able-bodied men and women. 

Vin-ered Woodworks: Unique in rhul-thaun society, this huge emporium exclusively 
displays and sells items fashioned of wood. The cost of their goods is moderately high, 
but Vin-ered quality is exceptional. 

The Water Temple: The second largest halfling temple, the Water Temple is found on 
the lake's edge. The buildings of this complex are designed to appear like long, snaky 
fish, swimming through the winding course of the temple grounds. 

Under the guidance of high priestess Fliv-anad (haf/P12/N) the priests of this temple 
maintain close relations with the life-masters of Thamasku. In fact, the water priests 
operate in the city as spies for the shapers, and are well paid for their services. 

The Dark Side 

The Ban-ghesh Guild, consisting of thieves, assassins, and muscles-for-hire, is the dri 
ving force of the less-reputable, darker side of Thamasku, which is usually considered to 
be the lower sector of the central part of the city. The slimy hands of this criminal orga 
nization are involved in many aspects of life in the city, including the extortion of mer 
chants, entertainers, and tenders. They own merchants willing to sell illegal goods, 
crooked lawkeepers on-the-take, and administrative officials devoid of ethics. The guild 
operates and invests in theaters, casinos, safehomes, storage facilities, and virtually 
every money making business opportunity or venture they can acquire. In fact, when 
businessmen first start ventures they often approach the guild, offering them a percent 
age of their profits in exchange for a guild investment. The guild is also available for 
loans (at exorbitant interest rates). 

One could argue that the Ban-ghesh could make a decent profit in purely legal activi 
ties (investments, loans, legitimate enterprises). Nevertheless, a great deal of its substan 
tial treasury comes from extortion, murder, and theft. 

In the lower northern quarter of Thamasku lies a secret, forbidden Fire Temple, offer 
ing its evil followers a place to revere the element of death and destruction. This temple 
maintains a contingent of Ban-ghesh armed guards for defense, in case of discovery. 
Rumors abound that the high priest, who many very well be insane, plans a massive 
showing of the power of elemental fire that will inflict tremendous damage upon the 
city and the people who have turned their backs on the proscribed element. 

Important NPCs 

Vahv-ostes (ham/F11): AC 4 (sheath armor); MV 6; hp 61; TFIACO 10 (9 with 

Strength); #AT 3/2; Dmg 1d8+1 (warstaff); SZ S (3'4" tall); ML Champion (15); AL 

NG; XP 3,000. 

S 17, roll 5d4 for attributes other than Strength. 

Personality: gruff, surly 

Special Equipment: sheath armor, warstaff, vher-elus badge graft 

Vahv-ostes is the commander of the vher-elus in Thamasku. Fie also hires himself out as 
a mercenary occasionally, along with a few of his compatriots who can be spared from 
their official duties for a week or two. 

Like most males, Vahv-ostes keeps his black hair long, but prefers it pulled straight back 
and tied, to keep it out of his eyes. His face and body show a number of scars, and when 
he seeks to impress others he uses body paint to highlight and draw attention to them. 

Jhen-athin (haf/T9): AC 7 (Dexterity bonus); MV 6; hp 32; TFIACO 16; #AT 1; Dmg 

1d6 (quickstrike); SA x4 backstab; SZ S (3' tall); ML Elite (13); AL N; XP 2,000. 

D 17, Ch 18, roll 5d4 for other attributes. 

55 


Personality: seductive, crafty. 

Special Equipment: clingbag, 50 feet of clingrope, shaper lockpick, thieves' tools, 
quickstrike. 

Thief Abilities: PP 60, OL 80, F/RT 50, MS 95, HS 80, DN 50, CW 95, RL 10. 
Jhen-athin is a member of the Ban-ghesh, and is considered to be one of the best infil 
trators in the business. Her specialties are her charm, wit, and pleasant demeanor. She 
uses these as tools to slip past guards and deceive the vher-elus. 

She keeps her brown hair short (as is the fashion), and often wears a painted blue 
stripe down the right side of her face. Her charm truly comes from her gentle behavior, 
not from her average appearance. 

PCs could encounter Jhen-athin when she is on a job (perhaps attempting to infiltrate 
the same organization the PCs are investigating). In that situation, she ignores the player 
characters unless they have something that she needs or they can assist her in some 
way. If the latter, she attempts to charm her way into getting what she wants. 

Pareth 

"The winds blow kindly on Pareth." 

-old windrider proverb 

The second largest community of halflings is much smaller than Thamasku, and nearly as 
old. In the rhulisti tongue, its name means "hidden," which is a fine descriptor for the 
secluded village. It is recessed back from a ledge that lies between two large, vertical 
outcroppings of rock and built even further to the rear, into a wide but shallow cave. 

The community is huge by rhul-thaun standards, with a population of 3,500, but still 
called a village. Its administrator, Bal-olech (ham/9/LG), is a retired windrider yearning 
for the old days. He wants to be young and spry so that he can ride the winds again. 
Since this cannot be, he lives vicariously through other windriders. Because of his feel 
ings, Pareth has become particularly attractive to windriders. Bal-olech's administrations 
have given merchants, safehome keepers, and others, encouragement to offer special 
incentives and services to windriders. Since this attracts new commerce, the har-etuil of 
the local clans does not oppose his mandates. 

Places of Note 

Ger-orif's: This is the safehome favored by windriders throughout the Jagged Cliffs. 
Although it is quite expensive, the riders receive discounts based on how much time 
they have been in the profession. 

The five-story tavern offers food, drink and entertainment of high quality. There is a 
huge fountain and even a pool where guests can swim-a rare opportunity on Athas. 
The 35 opulent rooms above and around the pool offer relaxation and comfort 
unknown in most other places on Athas. Water flows freely throughout the structure, 
and servants are ready to cater to any whim. 

Prices 

Entry Fee (paid at the door): 3 ghav-egoths 
Room (per night): 10 ghav-egoths 
Meal (light): 1 ghav-egoth 
Meal (sumptuous): 3 ghav-egoths 
Drink: 2 ghav-egoths 

Discount: 30% discount for windriders, plus 1% per year of experience, to a maximum 
of 50%. 

Sahr-enor Plaza: This large plaza is located near the center of the village. Windriders 
use the open area to ground their mounts. The flyers are then turned over to tenders in the 
employ of the city who care for them. For a fee of 1 ghav-egoth, a tender will oversee the 
needs of any size windrider flyer for one night. The plaza is also used for public gather 
ings, large entertainments (sponsored by the city to attract windriders), and other affairs. 
Sanctuary of Pareth: This sanctuary is another major shaper stronghold, a complex 


5 6 


built into the side of the cliff. Using long-forgotten organic digging methods, the ancient 
life-shapers created a series of rooms and corridors within the cliff. Rumor has it that the 
shapers only use a small portion of this underground domain. The vast majority of its 
rooms and galleries are unused-and for the most part, unexplored. Other rumors assert 
that ancient tunnels honeycomb the entire cliff, and may be filled with knowledge and 
artifacts from the distant past. Regardless, the sanctuary of Pareth is the only existing 
rhul-thaun subterranean structure. 

The leader of the sanctuary is Mag-aven (haf/F8/NE), a twisted soul in a twisted body. 
An accident during a life-shaping experiment disfigured her long ago and drove her par 
tially mad. Though she has supposedly recovered from the insanity, she has since devel 
oped a penchant for pain and the macabre. 

The Wind's Song: This small shrine dedicated to elemental air is built high atop a tall 
tower. The builders designed this organic structure as a unique wind organ. When the 
wind blows through the various holes and tubes carved into its walls and floors, it cre 
ates an ever changing melody of varying pitches. 

There is a single cleric caring for this temple. Her name is Fen-adan (haf/PIO/CG), and 
she mostly keeps to herself and to her temple. Fen-adan's self-imposed duties are to main 
tain the temple and to keep the tubes and orifices of the wind organ clear and clean. 

Important NPCs 

Las-aren (haf/F7): AC 4 (hidden sheath armor and shield); MV 6; hp 43; THACO 14; 
#AT 3/2; Dmg 1d6 or 1 dl0 (flashlance); SZ S (2' 11" tall); ML Champion (16); AL CE; 
XP 975. 

S 16, D 15, C 15, 19, W 14, Ch 12. 

Personality: cruel, backbiting 

Special Equipment: climbers' shield, climbing boots, flashlance, grasping hook, hid 
den sheath armor, sleep spore pod. 

Las-aren is a professional climber who lives in Pareth. She is completely evil and thor 
oughly untrustworthy, but still manages to get enough work to make ends meet. 
Occasionally, she lures prospective employers into secluded areas in order to kill them 
and strip the valuables from their pockets. 

Las-aren has long black hair-unusual for a rhul-thaun female. Her features are 
deceptively delicate, for she is strong and capable. She prefers drab clothing and tries to 
project a plain, homely appearance. 

The PCs may encounter her as a hired climber, a guide, or even a rival adventurer. 

She may even be a long-term rival or enemy. Las-aren is not a foe whose first response 
is combat with the PCs-unless she is sure she can win. She is more likely to use sub 
terfuge or deceit to defeat opponents. 

Flar-onib (ham/CIO [earth]): AC 1 (shell armor and shield); MV 6; hp 47; THACO 14 
(12 with Str); #AT 1; Dmg 1d6+1 (mace); SA gate 4 cubic feet of earth; SZ S (3' 1" 
tall); ML Fanatic (17); AL CG; XP 2,000. 

S 18, D 10, C 12, I 10, W 16, Ch 14. 

Personality: kind, quiet 

Special Equipment: lens grafts, shell armor 

Spells (6/6/3/3/2): 1st; bless, cure light wounds, elemental bonding, magical stone, pass 
without trace, sanctuary; 2nd; dust devil, draw upon holy might, enthrall, hold person 
(x2), silence 15V 3rd; locate object, meld into stone, stone shape; 4th; cure serious 
wounds, divination, return to the earth; 5th; anti-plant shell, transmute rock to mud. 

Flar-onib is a wandering priest. He has no temple to support him, but instead travels 
about helping the downtrodden and poor in the name of elemental earth. He frequents 
the village of Pareth more than most, having a special affection for its people. Fen-adan, 
the priestess of air in the city, dislikes him and it is rumored that they were once lovers. 

This holy man has long, unkempt brown hair and a scraggly appearance overall. He 
chooses to use a simple, life-shaped mace rather than more sophisticated weapons. 

The PCs may encounter him as a benefactor or he may himself serve as the basis of an 
adventure, requiring the aid of the PCs to accomplish some good task he has undertaken. 


57 


Glerran 


"Glerran, jewel of the cliffs, 
guard my love's restless sleep 
until I return to lie by her side." 

-unknown rhul-thaun poet 

The village of Glerran was one of the oldest established communities of rhul-thaun still 
in existence today. Glerran is even older than Pareth, but it is not as large a community. 
Its name, in the language of the ancient rhulisti, simply means "green." In the village's 
heyday, the name had meaning-it was literally surrounded by a vertical forest. The for 
est is long gone, but the community still thrives as a climber's haven. 

Numerous pathways, trails, and branches of the climbers lead to Glerran. One leads 
to the spot where a vertical bridge once provided a walkway around the great waterfall 
issuing from Ghavin Lake above. The organic bridge has long since collapsed and no 
attempt has been made to repair it. Only the most talented of climbers can cross the 
barrier of the falls, and it is this fact that caused the windriders to petition a number of 
har-etuil to argue against rebuilding the bridge in the Conclave. The windriders do not 
want increased competition. 

Glerran is a village of 2,500 inhabitants. Most of the population makes its livelihood 
as merchants and tenders, but Glerran has a greater than average number of climbers 
who are employed to maintain communication with Sol-fehn. 

The village administration is actually performed by two people, Kal-odot 
(ham/Ps12/NE) and Fren-anan (haf/Ps15/CE). These twins, brother and sister, are psioni- 
cists with mysterious and hidden talents. The twins can switch personalities, exchanging 
minds with each other so that each may occupy the other's body by an agreement of 
wills, across virtually any distance. They can also communicate telepathically at all 
times without barriers. These special abilities have allowed them to coordinate their 



58 




actions and rise to a position of power. It is actually only Kal-odot who holds the posi 
tion of administrator. His sister is seen merely as a popular socialite who often opposes 
her brother's decisions. (Fren-anan does this to play the gadfly, infiltrating organizations 
of opposition, deluding enemies, and confusing competitors.) The twins are the only 
functional psionicists in rhul-thaun society. They are self-taught, and use their abilities to 
further their ends. 

Places of Note 

Bid-unos: This is the largest temple of elemental earth in rhul-thaun society. Its name 
means "earthdance," and in an annual display of clerical power, the priests of the 
temple animate a great mass of rock outside the temple. The Festival of Great Earth cre 
ates a tremendous amount of thunderous clamor, which is annoying and frightening to 
many villagers, most of whom do not associate with the temple or its religion. 

There are five priests who manage this temple. Concealed from virtually everyone out 
side the priesthood, the high priest of Bid-unos (ham/P12/CG) is in possession of a 
magic item. Untold generations ago, at the dawn of the Age of Magic, a group of out 
siders came to the Jagged Cliffs. A lowly cleric whom the temple of elemental air had 
punished met them. He rejected the faith of air and began to worship the power of 
earth. And so they exiled him for heresy. 

The tribe of outlanders was an evil band out to exploit unexplored territory. They cap 
tured the halfling cleric and were beginning to torture him with hot coals on his tongue, 
seeking information. A pyreen who witnessed these events attacked the group and killed 
them all, saving the life of the cleric. 

The halfling cleric was terrified, but when he regained his composure, he seized the 
odd equipment that had belonged to the strangers. There were certainly other magical 
devices found that day. (Artifices that were lost, inadvertently destroyed, or stolen- 
these may yet be encountered somewhere among the rhul-thaun.) The cleric's attention 
was drawn to a single enchanted article: a device called an earth wand. This wand had 
the power to cause stone to move and act as commanded by the wielder (like the 7th- 
level priest spell, animate rock). Believing he had been given a sign and a gift from the 
greater element of earth, the cleric made his way to Glerran, founded the temple, and 
began a tradition of animating stone every 10 years to display the power of his personal 
element. In the years since, the wand has always been in the possession of the high 
priest, and in recent times the traditional celebration of the wand's power has been 
changed to an annual festival. The clerics of the temple, however, are unaware that the 
wand only has two charges left. 

Because of that ancient cleric's encounter with the pyreen, the temple preaches a 
doctrine of the reality of amazingly powerful beings of nature at the top of the cliffs, 
who guard the rhul-thaun and all earth worshipers from harm. 

Sanctuary of Glerran: This large structure houses over 100 life-shapers who live and 
work here, growing and nurturing their creations. The life-shapers of Glerran are a free- 
willed and independent group which resents the sinister edicts that come from the lead 
ership in Thamasku. Under their local superior, Dehm-acov (haf/F8/CG), the Glerran 
shapers are about to make their independence known to Thamasku. They expect the 
inevitability of actual conflict, but they also believe they can overcome any force Gil- 
ogres sends to force the sanctuary into submission. 

Teblish: This place is not actually as old as its name, which means "thorny" in the 
tongue of the rhulisti. This large, organic safehome was grown within the confines of its 
predecessor's decaying and rotting walls. For reasons lost to time, the previous structure 
on this spot was grown so that the walls sprouted long, dangerous thorns. The old, shriv 
eled thorns are still visible on the outside walls of the building, along with the remnants 
of the former establishment. Inside, however, Teblish is a new and obviously thriving 
enterprise. 

The safehome also doubles as a theater and drama, music, and tale-telling are all per 
formed here. Meals and drinks are served to everyone in the theater. The second and 
third floors hold rooms for paying guests to spend the night. The entertainment is free, 
and draws a large crowd each night. Rooms cost only 3 ghav-egoths and meals run 
about 1 ge. 


59 



Important NPCs 

Seth-opal (ham/T8): AC 5 (hide armor and Dexterity bonus); MV 6; hp 29; THACO 
17; #AT 1; Dmg 1d6 (armspike); SA x3 backstab; SZ S (3' 1 inch tall); ML Steady 
(12); AL NE; XP 1,400. 

S 12, D 15, C 10, I 17, W 14, Ch 11. 

Personality: aloof, uncaring 

Special Equipment: armspike, hide armor, deathspray, lockpick, stealthboots 
Thief Abilities: PP 45, OL 30, F/RT 35, MS 90, HS 70, DN 45, CW 60, RL 0. 

Seth-opal is a cruel and heartless killer who secretly operates out of the Teblish safe- 
home, posing as a merchant named Ren-odar. While he won't do anything to jeopar 
dize his cover at the Teblish, he can be hired to work as an assassin or thief. Most of the 
time, however, he works on his own, for himself, killing wealthy merchants for their 
money and goods, breaking into homes, and committing other nefarious deeds. This evil 
character will always be an opponent of the player characters, who may encounter him 
as he attempts to rob one of them. 

Completely average in appearance, Seth-opal is a master of disguise. He keeps his 
thick, black hair close-cropped to enable him to wear wigs and other disguises. His 
eyes are brown, and he rarely wears the same style of clothing or makeup paint twice 
unless he is posing as Ren-odar, in which case he wears long, bulky clothing to make 
himself appear heavier. 

Sahn-abish (haf/F9): AC 4 (half shell and shield); MV 6; hp 64; THACO 12; #AT 3/2; 
Dmg 1d6 (short sword); SZ S (2' 9" tall); ML Elite (13); AL N; XP 2,000. 

S 16, D 14, C 17, I 10, W 9, Ch 12. 

Personality: self-serving, inquisitive 
Special Equipment: coolcloak, climbing boots, spineshield 


'Air 


60 



Sahn-abish is virtually unique in rhul-thaun society-she is a rogue life-shaper. She left the 
sanctuary of Thamasku nine years ago, and has been on the run from the shapers and 
their assassins ever since. She was (and is) a talented crafter, but she disapproved of the 
shapers' methods and plans. She came to Glerran because she heard that the sanctuary in 
this village was discontented with the way of things coming from Thamasku. She has 
made secret contacts with Dem-acov, voicing her support for a schism within the shapers. 
At this point, however, she chooses to keep her presence concealed. 

Sahn-abish has long red hair that she keeps tucked up inside a leather cap when she 
is traveling incognito. Her clothing too is simple, in order to avoid attracting attention. 

Sahr-tosh 

"You can go to Sahr-tosh, if the wind will take you there. " 

-a tine from the play Stormriders 

Known as the city of storms, bitter winds and inclement weather often besiege this village. 
The reason for the savagery of the storms here is simply that this is the most exposed ledge 
settlement of the rhul-thaun. Nevertheless, storms are more frequent in this part of the cliffs, 
and Sahr-tosh was built in an unfortunate location. The population remains steadfast despite 
the danger, however, and approximately 2,000 halflings make their homes in Sahr-tosh. 

Because of an odd effect of Rajaat's Curse from the swamp below, the mist near Sahr- 
tosh often takes on a rainbow cast. Colors cascade, pulsing and scintillating for hours at 
a time, day or night, in patternless, random intervals. 

Rel-anir (haf/FIO/LE) is the city's administrator and chief life-shaper. In Sahr-tosh more 
than anywhere else, the shapers are in complete control. With Rel-anir as their superior, 
they wield absolute economic and political power. 

Sahr-tosh is a rough and rugged community, with few places of luxury or comfort. 

Most of the people are common folk, working hard to make a life for themselves on this 


61 









ledge. Many of the inhabitants are tenders, caring for the creations of the many life- 
shapers who work in this village. 

Pterrans dwell dangerously close to Sahr-tosh, and villagers require protection as do 
windriders, climbers, and travelers. Therefore, many of its citizens follow the warrior 
trade. Mercenaries are easy to find here, as well as other, less savory freelancers-many 
of them seeking less than reputable employment. 

The pterrans have never assaulted the village itself, and most likely will not. They 
occasionally attempt to isolate climbers and attack them or swoop down on windriders, 
striking from the backs of their pterrax mounts. In similar fashion, patrols of climbing 
and windriding rhul-thaun warriors-vher-elus under the command of the life-shapers - 
hunt pterrax that stray near the village. 

The life-shapers, as a group, harbor a particular hatred for other intelligent races. 

While this is an inherent contradiction of the philosophy that "all life is sacred," raising 
this question in Sahr-tosh is unwise. Expressing anti-shaper sentiments is not a crime, as 
such, but those who do are usually punished nonetheless. 

Places of Note 

Sanctuary of Sahr-tosh: This sanctuary is disproportionately large for the community in 
which it finds itself. Because they are in total political control of the village, the Sahr- 
tosh shapers are rarely taken to task for the excesses of their actions. 

Furthermore, since they are practically immune from prosecution, they use their sanc 
tuary to carry out extremely dangerous experiments and to hide their failures and deep 
est secrets. It is here, too, that they keep their prohibited servants, the ghav-nosh, the 
takers of life. The ghav-nosh are the shapers' personal assassins. They use unique, and 
particularly deadly shaped weapons to eliminate their masters' enemies. They are, ironi 
cally, killers in the employ of the masters of life. 

Stormtower: This is the highest tower in the village, and functions as a prison of sorts. 
Long ago, 14 different, powerfully shaped creations of the rhulisti were sealed into 
cocoon-like pods. No one remembers how they can be safely opened, nor exactly what 
lies within the pods. Semi-transparent nodules on the pods reveal cloudy, uncertain 
shapes, and certainly some of them are intelligent creatures. Rather than destroy them, 
the life-shapers have chosen to keep them here, locked away and well guarded, until 
such time as someone can determine what they are and what they can do. All that the 
people of the village know about Stormtower is that something dangerous and forbid 
den is kept under guard in the top of the tower. 

Important NPCs 

Typical ghav-nosh assassin (ham & haf/T5): AC 10 (none); MV 6; hp 20; THACO 18. 

#AT 1; Dmg 1d6 (quickstrike); SA x3 backstab; SZ S (3' tall); ML Champion (15); Int 

Average (8-10); AL NE; XP 420. 

Special Equipment: grasping hook and 100 feet of rope, poison nodule, quickstrike. 

Thief Abilities: PP 40, OL 45, F/RT 20, MS 70, HS 70, DN 50, CW 70, RL 0. 

The assassins are very loyal, and have few qualms about killing or committing any loath 
some actions their masters call upon them to perform. Ghav-nosh usually wear black 
cloaks and red face masks. Some ghav-nosh are warriors wearing hidden sheath armor. 

Wem-osun (ham/F11): AC 0 (sheath, shield, and Dexterity bonus); MV 6; hp 73; 

THACO 10; #AT 3/2; Dmg 1d6 (shockstick); SA shockstick inflicts additional 1d6 

electrical damage every 6 rounds; SZ S (2' 10"); ML Fearless (20); AL CG; XP 4,000. 

S 14, D 17, C 16, I 17, W 16, Ch 15. 

Personality: noble, self-sacrificing 

Special Equipment: directional sensor, sheath armor, shockstick 

Psionic Summary: Dis 2/Sci 1/Dev 4; PSPs 54; Att EW, PB; Def MB 

Player's Option: #AT 1; MTHAC0 14; MAC 7 

Telepathy: Sciences-psionic blast; Devotions-ego whip, mind blank 

Psychometabolism: Devotions-chameleon power, heightened senses 


62 


Wem-osun is the life-shaper's main enemy in Sahr-tosh. He leads a small underground 
movement to strike at them and the ghav-nosh. He is an ally of the shapers in Glerran, 
who secretly send him supplies and assistance when they can. He makes full use of his 
psionic abilities to aid him in his fight. 

A handsome rebel, despite the fact that he is getting on in years (even for a halfling), 
he is a robust man and a formidable foe. Though he won't tell, some say that he is over 
100 years old. His medium-length black hair is greying. 

Player characters may encounter Wem-osun in Sahr-tosh if they are friends of the 
Glerran shapers. They might also meet him as he attempts to convert them to his cause. 
He will speak to them for a few minutes, telling them that the shapers are actually an 
insidious organization, seeking to control the lives and livelihoods of citizens, and then 
disappear into the alleyways before the vher-elus show up to apprehend him. 

Yihn-tol 

"These aren't just stories for your amusement, you know-there is danger down there." 

- Sahl-oren , a halfling swamp explorer 

The village of Yihn-tol gained the name Climber's Home in times past when it was the 
center for the climbing profession. While that role has diminished, Yihn-tol is still a suc 
cessful village of 1,800 inhabitants. It is also situated further down the cliff side than any 
other halfling settlement on the Jagged Cliffs. This presents two unusual challenges for 
the community. 

The first problem is Rajaat's Curse. Being the village closest to the swamp means that 
terrifying effects emanating from it present a greater risk to those who live here. The 
mysterious incidents caused by the swamp's energies sometimes result in disaster. Fire, 
sickness, blight, and mysterious disappearances are all traced to Rajaat's Curse. The 
curse alters people, warping the bodies and even the minds of the inhabitants, particu 
larly the newborn. 



63 












The second trial is yet another threat from the swamp, this time from the monsters down 
below that seek a purchase a little higher on the cliffs. All manner of horrors breed within 
the swamp and some of them leave to ascend the bluffs. Most are clumsy climbers, ill- 
used to the bright and open ridges, and the city's defenders easily ward them off. 

Yet far worse are the reggelids, who live at the base of the cliffs and wield strange 
powers. Thankfully, they rarely seek to come as high as Yihn-tol. Finally, and worst of 
all, are the rare but dangerous assaults of the thri-kreen. When the mantis warriors seek 
to find a way up the cliffs, they often choose to attack Yihn-tol first. 

Because of these threats, Yihn-tol is the only truly fortified halfling community. Walls 
of stone and other defenses protect the village. A large, well-armed garrison of vher-elus 
stands vigilant and ready to repel any attack. Unique among the vher-elus, however, 
their attention is directed outside the settlement rather than within it. 

There is no life-shaper sanctuary in Yihn-tol. The shapers refuse to risk either them 
selves or their growth chambers to the tender mercies of Rajaat's Curse and swamp-born 
monsters. All of the shaped constructs required by the community must be shipped in 
from other villages. Life-shapers are flown in when a new building is to be created, and 
leave immediately upon completion. Because of this, The people of Yihn-tol have taken 
steps to reduce their needs for organic tools, products, and even structures. 

(The DM should add 50% to the prices of all life-shaped goods.) 

Places of Note 

Brewefam: Housing producers of wonderful leather goods, this place is named for its 
odd appearance. Apparently, a flaw during its growth caused the building to "sweat." 
The walls of Bren-efam draw moisture from the air and the earth and secrete it out of 
the tiny pores in its surface. The seepage is a thick, syrupy ooze that is strangely sweet 
to the taste and quite harmless. 

Ter-ogon's: This safehome caters to adventurers. Daring halflings occasionally decide 
to brave the dangers of the swamp or the kreen-infested savanna to learn what secrets 
and treasures they hold. When they do, they come to Yihn-tol first, and always end up 
at Ter-ogon's. 

Ter-ogon's is also a hideout for Chahn terrorists and other, even more disreputable, 
types. The comforts it offers are few, but pickings in Yihn-tol are slim. A night's stay costs 
2 ghav-egoths, and a meal costs 1 ge. 

Important NPCs 

Pev-ovas (ham/FI0/T10): AC 3 (hide armor and Dexterity bonus); MV 6; hp 53; 
THACO 11; #AT 3/2; Dmg 1d8 (armblade); SA x4 backstab; SZ S (3' tall); ML Elite 
(14); AL CE; XP 3,000. 

S 17, D 17, C 14, I 12, W 9, Ch 8. 

Personality: brutish, cold 

Special Equipment: armblade, chameleon cloak, 100' clingrope, hide armor, lightvi- 
sor graft. 

Thief Abilities: PP 70, OL 65, F/RT 45, MS 70, HS 65, DN 75, CW 65, RL 0. 

Pev-ovas is chief of the Chahn in Yihn-tol. He is a homicidal, megalomaniacal lunatic. 
He cares little for the feelings of others or for the cause he "supports." He uses the 
Chahn as a vehicle for personal power and as an outlet for his destructive aggression. 

He has a number of subordinates, some of whom delude themselves into thinking that 
Pev-ovas is fighting for the cause of right. The rest are as dangerously evil as he. 

er-omak 

And Ter-omak said, "Back coarse beast, 
back to your foul and blackened grotto. 

This village, my people, are ever lost to you, 
or you will face my angry wrath anew!" 

-Stanza 758 of Ter-omak, a rhul-thaun epic 


64 


The Ter-omak was named for a great warrior, whose name meant day hunter. When an 
earthquake weakened the ledges where two halfling villages were located, threatening 
to destroy them both, Ter-omak led the people to a site he had found while hunting-a 
place for a new village. He coordinated the mass exodus while the har-etuils of the con 
cerned clans were still debating what should be done. So great was the gratitude of the 
people that they named the new consolidated community after him. His popularity con 
vinced the har-etuil to appoint him the community's administrator, a position the hunter 
was ill-prepared for, but one he held until his death decades later. 

Today Ter-omak is a community of 1,500 residents. Nicely placed at the center of the 
settled portion of the Jagged Cliffs, this village is a hub of climber and windrider traffic. 
Several safehomes indulge the needs of travelers. 

The current administrator of Ter-omak is Vit-obaer (ham/F5/LG), a man with his hands 
full of problems. There are essentially only two clans in Ter-omak (each formerly 
belonged to one of the two tiny villages that were united by Ter-omak), the Flahd and 
the Bein. The clans are currently in a state of feud, and occasionally the fuss turns vio 
lent. The reasons for the conflict are diverse and number in the hundreds, including 
property rights, lovers' quarrels, lies, counter lies, false dealings, and a myriad of per 
sonal affronts. 

The two factions keep the lawkeepers constantly employed, dealing with everything 
from small acts of vandalism and terrorism to the violence that sometime erupts 
throughout the village. 

Places of Note 

Bein Clanhouse: Unlike other clanhouses of the rhul-thaun (many of which are no longer 
in use), the Bein Clanhouse is a virtual fortress. The Bein believe that the only way to elimi 
nate their enemies is through open warfare, to force the Flahd to submit. Therefore, war in 
the streets is inevitable. In order to prepare themselves, they are stockpiling weapons of all 
sorts, food, and other supplies. Though the clan is obviously far too large to ever be able to 
bring everyone inside and protect them, it is fortified against attack and can keep up to 100 
clansmen safe and supplied for a limited time. Their self-appointed military leader, Fin- 
aheon (haf/F9/N), constantly upgrades their defenses and military plans. 

Flahd Clanhouse: The Flahd clanhouse is as fortified and well-stocked as that of the 
Bein. Reth-olus (ham/F8/T8/LN) is a har-etuil for the Flahd clan who also serves as its 
commander in time of conflict. 

The safehomes: Six establishments purvey food, drink, and lodging to the large 
amount traffic that passes through the village. Unfortunately, casualties of the feud 
between the clans are not just local clan members. Simply staying the night at a safe- 
home run by one clan automatically makes one an enemy of the other. Each controls 
three safehomes, and prices are low in all of them. A night's stay is 2 ghav-egoths, and a 
meal is only 1 ge. 

Important NPCs 

Tkaun-osir (ham/FG): AC 1 (shell armor and shield); MV 6; hp 47; THACO 15 (13 

with Strength bonus); #AT 1; Dmg 1d8 (hurling titan); SZ S (2' 8"); ML steady (12); AL 

NG; XP 975. 

S 18, D 12, C 15, I 10, W 6, Ch 10. 

Personality: Well intentioned, unintentionally foolish. 

Special Equipment: glowing graft, sleep spore pod, shell armor, organic shield, hurl 
ing titan. 

Thaun-osir is also known as the Peacemaker. He is doing whatever he can to stop the 
conflict between the two feuding clans. He has a large heart, but very little idea what 
he is doing. When news of a battle or potential confrontation between the clans reaches 
him, he races off to try to stop it. Usually, his unwise and ineffective endeavors only 
exacerbate the situation. 

Though short, even for a halfling, Thaun-osir's strength and battle prowess is great- 
unfortunately, he loathes violence. His long brown hair is often falling into his face, get 
ting in his eyes. 


65 


Vir-rath 


"Climbing to Vir-rath, 
where the brew is stout 
and the food is warm 
all the day long.'' 

- Rhul-thaun drinking song 

This village is named for the odd shape of the ledge on which it is built. In fact, it really 
isn't built upon a ledge at all, but rather at the top of a pinnacle of rock that thrusts 
upward from a cliff slope. The pinnacle top consists of three separate levels and the vil 
lage is built on these. 

One of the greatest demands on the villagers of Vir-rath face is the inaccessibility of 
water. Windriders and climbers are needed to haul water up from nearby pools and 
waterfalls. Thousands of years ago, life-shaped engines pumped water up to the top of 
the peak in huge, organic pipes. Now, however, the pool has long since dried-up and 
the engines have fallen into disrepair. No living shaper remembers how to repair them 
and new ones are just too expensive. 

The population of this village is around 1,300. Most of the people are employed as 
tenders, though there are many fine craftsmen here as well, working in stone, leather, 
cloth, and other materials. Finally, Vir-rath is known for its painters and sculptors. 

Nowhere else in rhul-thaun society are class distinctions as apparent as in Vir-rath. 

The three levels of the village are inhabited by the poor, the middle class, and the 
wealthy in ascending order. 

Places of Note 

The Crook of Her Arm: This safehome is the favored establishment of painters because 
of its wide, open views of the surrounding community. Prices are inexpensive-a night's 
stay costs 1 ghav-egoth, and a meal is usually less than 1 ge. 

Pinnacle: This is another safehome, but it is located at the top level of the village and is 
the highest point of the settlement. It is an expensive place to stay and eat, although the 
prices seem quite arbitrary, based on the whim of the owner. Res-ohin (ham/FI 2/T12/CN), 
is a fat halfling whom most of his patrons believe is insane. A room for one night here can 
range from 2 to 20 ghav-egoths, and a meal can cost from 1 to 10 ge. 

Important NPCs 

Zohr-otosh the Water Keeper (ham/P9 [water]): AC 4 (half shell armor and Dex 
bonus); MV 6; hp 35; THACO 16; #AT 1; Dmg 1d6 (lifeleech); SA Gate 3 cubic feet 
of water, lifeleech drains 1 dl2 hp when first used against a particular foe; SZ S (3' 

1"); ML Average (10); AL N, XP 1,000. 

S 10, D 15, C 9, I 12, W 16, Ch 17. 

Personality: cautious, meticulous 

Special Equipment: clingbag, grappler, half shell armor, lifeleech 
Spells (6/6/3/2/1): 1st- command, create water, cure light wounds, detect poison, 
protection from evil, purify food and drink: 2nd- clear water, goodberry, hold per 
son, know alignment; silence, withdraw; 3rd- create food and water, water breath 
ing, water walk; 4th- lower water, neutralize poison; 5th- cure critical wounds. 

The city administrator appointed Zohr-otosh water master. His duties are to watch over 
water supplies and make sure the city's reserves are maintained and safe. This makes 
him a powerful individual, since the price of water is so high in this village. The cleric 
takes his job very seriously, and has hired a number of trustworthy guards to help him 
watch over the city's reservoir. 

In appearance, Zohr-otosh is unremarkable. His brown hair matches his brown eyes 
that match the brown clothing he wears under shell armor. He keeps his armor and 
weapons ready at all times-just to be safe. 


66 


Sunnil 


"And you'll find yourself on Sunnil's shelf, 
and then where will you be?" 

-Popular dance-hall song 

As one might gather from the construction of its name, Sunnil's roots are ancient. The 
city has declined since its founding, and now finds itself one of the least of the ledge 
communities. Sunnil is a village of 1,000 residents, known for its breweries. 

Sunnil's administrator, Mak-amoar (haf/F5/N), is extremely ill-a victim of the debili 
tating effects of Rajaat's Curse. The har-etuil are loath to have to find a replacement for 
this popular official, but there may be little choice. She is bedridden and barely able to 
keep up her duties even through assistants. 

Places of Note 

Clon-sin Bridge: This stone bridge connects the two ledges on which Sunnil is built. It is 
the longest bridge ever erected by the rhul-thaun that is still in existence, stretching 
nearly 500 yards. The bridge is wide enough for 20 halflings to walk abreast. Organic 
buildings grow along the sides of the bridge to utilize precious space. Most of these 
buildings house lower-class homes. 

Hast-ulon Temple: This temple of elemental water is maintained by two clerics, Thav- 
adern (haf/PII/NG) and Lus-okuhv (ham/PIO/LG), a married couple who have a great 
deal of political influence in this small village. They are consulted by the local har-etuil 
on matters of importance, and even those who pay no heed to the faith of water respect 
these two. 

Important NPCs 

Ther-adar (haf/F9): AC 6 (Dex bonus); MV 6; hp 51; THAC0 12; #AT 3/2; Dmg 1 dl0 
(flashlance); SZ S (2' 11"); ML Elite (14); AL N; XP 1,000. 

S 14, D 18, C 10, I 11, W 16, Ch 10. 

Personality: preoccupied, distant. 

Special Equipment: flashlance, shield swarm, spinethrower, yihn-eflan. 

This windrider makes her home in Sunnil. She is the daughter of the current administra 
tor, but she has no desire to take her place. Her home is in the skies, and no one can 
make her believe otherwise. Nevertheless, she feels guilty about letting her mother 
down. 

Ther-adar is rugged and tough. Her black hair is cut very short, and she is rarely seen 
in anything but sturdy work clothes. 

Reg-tol 

"And High Lord Rhan did take shelter in Lordshome, meditating on his great journey. 
Only the contemplative solitude of the cliffs could aid him now." 

-fragment of an ancient text 

The small village of Reg-tol, known as Lordshome, was once a community of the 
wealthy-a retreat where the rich and powerful could escape the rigors of life in 
Thamasku. Before that, it was the traditional dwelling place of the rhul-thaun high 
lord-a position not held for thousands of years. Since its founding, however, it has 
grown into a lively but respectable village. Eight hundred people live in Reg-tol, making 
it the smallest inhabited community of the cliffs, but it is still larger than the tiny camps 
that dot the cliff face. 


67 


Important NPCs 

Dhar-ahan (haf/F4/T4): AC 8 (climber's shield and Dex bonus); MV 6; hp 24; THACO 
17; #AT 1; Dmg 1d6 (clawgrafts); SA x2 backstab; SZ S (3'); ML steady (12); AL NE; 
XP 420. 

S 12, D 15, C 13, I 16, W 12, Ch 11. 

Personality: devious, selfish 

Special Equipment: clawgrafts (5), climber's shield, poison nodule, stealthboots. 

Thief Abilities: PP 75, OL 55, F/RT 10, MS 50, HS 65, DN 20, CW 70, RL 0. 
Dhar-ahan is a professional pickpocket, cutpurse, and burglar. If that were all, she 
would be just one of the many who tread on the dark side, and nothing more would 
need to be said. Dhar-ahan is different, however, for not long ago she uncovered a thri- 
kreen plot to use psionics to infiltrate and destroy the rhul-thaun. Worse, she agreed to 
help them in exchange for her life. 

Dhar-ahan has medium-length black hair, and dark, bloodshot eyes. She wears wildly 
flamboyant body paint, particularly on her face. 

Bav-rem 

"The songs of Bav-rem still fill the heart 
of my heart with rising joy." 

-Anonymous poem 

Bav-rem is now an empty ruin of abandoned basement pits and discarded articles. Once 
this was a small but thriving community in the north, near the falls of the same name. 
(The village was named for the waterfall, whose name means "death drop.") Just a few 
months ago, a group of climbers carrying messages and provisions to Bav-rem found- 
nothing. All of the inhabitants and even the village's buildings, had vanished. 

Subsequent expeditions determined that something large and amorphous strayed 



68 



through the village. Disturbingly, according to the tracks it left, it seemed to grow larger 
as it slithered through the community. Everything organic-halflings, buildings, life 
shaped creations, and even the wild plants growing nearby-were no more. One of the 
explorers noticed that there were no insects in the area. Only inorganic materials and 
objects remained. 

The Truth 

The cause of the disappearance of Bav-rem has not yet been discovered, but it has 
alarmed a great many people. Many felt that other villages would be attacked in a simi 
lar way, but as of yet, nothing has happened. Most believe that a horror from the swamp 
destroyed the village. Others fear that the kreen were again on the move and this time 
made it all the way up to Bav-rem. 

The actual origin of the calamity was a furtive life-shaping experiment gone awry. 

Three life-shapers in the local sanctuary had discovered an ancient formula for produc 
ing a new life-shaped construct. Although it contained principles they did not under 
stand, they chose to use the formula anyway, thinking that if they were successful, their 
fame would be assured. As it was, the fateful consequences of their actions were so per 
vasive and complete that they did not even achieve infamy. 

The accidental formulation created a semi-sentient creature with the ability to absorb 
other organic substances into its body, convert the material, and add the substance to its 
own mass. It began first as a tiny blob of protoplasm, then it started to grow at an alarm 
ing rate. It consumed the life-shaped creations in the laboratory where it was born. Next 
it absorbed its creators and the other life-shapers in the sanctuary, consuming their con 
structs as well. Spreading out from the shapers' sanctuary, it groped its way through the 
village, drawing every living thing into its ever expanding bulk. Nothing escaped. The 
creature then wandered to a nearby cave to rest. The giant protoplasmic creature has 
lost much of its mass, and eventually it must feed again. To make matters worse, the 
beast may go into mitosis and produce a duplicate of itself. 









Adventurers may go to Bav-rem out of simple curiosity, or as investigators searching for 
clues to the causes of the destruction after the disappearance of an entire vertical forest 
near their own community. The creature, again on the move, could have devoured the 
forest and is hibernating again, with the PC's village being its next target. Player charac 
ters who explore the ruins of Bav-rem can probably determine that the creature's swath 
of destruction originated at a point where once stood a life-shaper sanctuary. Perhaps 
that knowledge could give them a clue about how to stop or destroy it. 

Other Races of the Jagged Cliffs 

"The thing raised a long, shriveled arm and waved about like a creature maddened by 
the heat or the wind. It flexed too many extravagantly long fingers as it murmured words 
that seemed meaningless, but disturbing, gibberish. It finished its odd finger dance and 
solo vocalizations with a smile that I will take to my grave. As it did so, a smoky flash of 
yellowish light appeared in its hand, creating tiny daggers of piercing, numbingly orange 
energy. The missiles flew from its fingers and struck down Han-amak and wounded my 
brother, Gon-obal. I knew that I could take no more of this bizarre scene, and I fled up 
the cliff side again, lest I too lose my life to unknowable powers ." 

-Account from the Journal of Taen-onos, the first halfling to encounter a reggelid 

Sharing the Jagged Cliffs are creatures too numerous to ever completely catalog. The 
halflings are not even the region's only intelligent inhabitants (only the most sophisti 
cated, and probably the most prevalent). Presented here are the other races with whom 
the rhul-thaun contend and struggle. 

Bva nen 

When the rhul-thaun first encountered the bvanen, they thought that these amphibians 
were simply monsters. Long ago they waged great battles against them, for the rhul- 
thaun believed the carnivorous bvanen were a threat to the villages near the cliff bot 
toms where the amphibians apparently lived. It was not until two halflings escaped from 
the bvanen cave-city, after capture by one of their hunting parties, that the truth was dis 
covered. The escapees reported a surprising level of sophistication, intelligence, and 
benevolence. 

The city, they reported, was found in a subterranean cavern accessed by a narrow 
entrance well hidden in a crevice near the base of the cliffs. An entrance evidently lay 
below and 30 miles north of the village of Vir-rath. Half submerged in an underground 
lake, the city consists of individual nest-homes fashioned of mud, sticks, and other 
plants, coated overall with a shell of hardened ooze secreted by the bvanen. 

The amphibians showed a great deal of organization within their community. Every 
member had a position in a hierarchy-a sort of pecking order. The position of each was 
symbolized by scars carved into the bvanens' flesh, as were important nonverbal mes 
sages of status, current duty, and personal designs. 

The individuals in the city were divided into two groups-warrior/hunters and caretak 
ers. The warrior/hunters protected the city and obtained food. The caretakers looked 
after the young and the needs of the community and domesticated beasts. The Bvanen 
keep an amphibious form of inix, some large fish, and a variety of other relatively harm 
less animals. These are used as pets, food, and in the case of the inix, transport. 

The halfling prisoners were well-treated. The bvanen, once they had learned that their 
captives were also intelligent creatures, refused to eat them, but apparently held them as 
curiosities. Attempts at communication were unsuccessful until a bvanen with the 
psionic mindlink power came to them. He probed their minds, presumably learning a 
great deal about rhul-thaun culture. 

Overall, the halflings found their captors to be gentle and kind to them and their ani 
mals. They used almost no tools or weapons, relying solely on their own psionic abili 
ties and natural strength. Nevertheless, they were a successful and thriving race, content 
to keep to themselves. 

This, of course, happened hundreds of years ago. Since then, many halflings have 


70 


wondered why the two prisoners were allowed to escape with their knowledge. Perhaps 
the bvanen hoped this would end the hostilities between the races. Certainly the 
amphibians have not initiated any conflict with the halflings. The rhul-thaun, in turn, 
have simply avoided the bvanen whenever possible. The Conclave of Har-etuil has 
never made an official ruling regarding the bvanen, or how they should be treated when 
encountered. Many cynics claimed that if the bvanen produced anything that could be 
sold or traded, the har-etuil, in a fit of mercantile zeal, would have successfully commu 
nicated and established relations with them long ago. 

For more information about the bvanen, see the Monstrous Compendium Appendix at 
the back of this book. 

Reggelids 

The reggelids are few, a fortunate thing for the halflings. These slender humanoids don't 
much like the rhul-thaun, and particularly despise the art of life-shaping. For reasons 
still unknown to even the life-shapers, organic creations reject all contact with 
reggelids, an instinctive abhorrence on a fundamental, biological level. Some life 
shaped creations even transform into caustic substances at the mere touch of reggelids. 

The reggelids are a magical race, possessing powers misunderstood and terrifying to 
the rhul-thaun. Among the greatest goals of this race is to find all lore and artifacts left 
over by Rajaat. To accomplish this, the reggelids continually scour the swamp in small 
parties of three to ten. Fearing the dangers of that dread region, however, they make 
their homes on the safer ledges near the bottom of the Jagged Cliffs. 

These hateful, evil brutes attack rhul-thaun on sight, particularly if they possess life 
shaped goods. They attempt to use spells to destroy or neutralize the organic equip 
ment, favoring polymorph other , cloudkill, and a special spell they developed to 
counter them, called organic disruption. 

The halflings count the reggelids among their greatest enemies, including the thri- 
kreen. Those rhul-thaun explorers who venture down the cliffs and into the swamp must 
be guard at all times for these magical enemies. Fearing their powers, the halflings kill 
reggelids on sight, without mercy. Calling them "ven-pahr" (hated destroyers), they hold 
the maxim that the "only good reggelid is one whose corpse is reduced to ash." Many 
falsely believe that the gaunt reggelids are undead. If so, there is no life in them, and 
therefore no transgression in killing them. 

The halflings have found that occasionally a life-shaped creature (never a natural 
organism) is altered by the touch of a reggelid. The chemical composition of the organic 
tool then becomes caustic and can inflict 1d6 points of damage per round on the 
offending reggelid. Unfortunately, this also destroys the construct. This seems to happen 
about 25 percent of the time. Even the briefest contact (including a reggelid being struck 
by an organic weapon in combat) may cause this change. Purposely trying to injure 
reggelids by touching life-shaped tools to their flesh is acceptable only as a last resort, 
in a life-or-death situation. No rhul-thaun willingly destroys an organic tool or weapon 
in such a horrible manner without a powerful, overriding reason. 

For more information about reggelids, see the Monstrous Compendium Appendix at 
the back of this book. 

Pterrans 

Several tribes of reptilian pterrans roost in heights of the cliffs, in the northern 
reaches of the region. Although neither evil nor particularly expansionist, these territor 
ial creatures have endured many misunderstandings with the halflings that have resulted 
in bloodshed. Their alien outlook and suspicious nature make true peace and under 
standing between the races virtually impossible. 

Like their cousins in the Hinterland, these pterrans use pterrax as mounts as they hunt 
along the cliff face. This often brings confrontations with windriding rhul-thaun hunters. 
Aerial battles are common, although both sides usually avoid them whenever possible, 
since they are difficult to fight and harder to survive. A wounded flying mount may take 
itself and its rider to their deaths, either dashing into the cliff face or plummeting all the 
way to the swampy bottom. 

Unlike the reggelids or the bvanen, some pterrans have learned to use the life-shaped 


71 


creations of the halflings. They do not have the knowledge, the skills, or the facilities to 
maintain and tend the creatures in most cases. Nevertheless, they enjoy stealing them 
and using them until they die. This, more than anything else, infuriates the rhul-thaun, 
for the pterrans have no respect for life-shaped creations or even for life in general. 

Many halflings-even some har-etuil-believe that steps should be taken to drive off the 
pterrans or to eradicate them altogether. Such a war would be bloody, with great losses 
of life on both sides. Those halflings who believe most strongly in the sanctity of life are 
obviously set against any attempts at genocide. 

The pterrans are nomadic, but keep to the upper regions of the cliffs and avoid settling 
close to halfling villages. 

Pyreen 

The pyreen are powerful supporters and benefactors of the rhul-thaun. They know the 
actual history of the halflings, and see them as the last vestige of ancient times. For this 
reason, they do whatever they can to protect and preserve the halflings' culture, pre 
venting potentially dangerous travelers from making contact with the rhul-thaun. 

The pyreen are found in the lands directly above the cliffs. In their devotion, keeping 
the rhul-thaun free of outside influence, they themselves avoid direct contact with the 
halflings. A few select individuals have encountered the pyreen, and those who do usu 
ally believe they have had an encounter with singular, semi-spiritual entities rather than 
members of a race nearly as ancient as their own. 

The pyreen observe. These self-appointed protectors carefully watch explorers and 
adventurers from beyond the Jagged Cliffs heading for an encounter with the rhul-thaun. 
They prevent any confrontation that may be dangerous for the halflings if possible, 
either by simple misdirection or with more violent, more direct measures. 

Likewise, if a number of outsiders are seen stealing life-shaped products, the pyreen 
will intervene with whatever force is necessary. They do what they can to keep the half 
lings and their technological art isolated and protected. 

Even rhul-thaun explorers who leave their homes in the cliffs to see what lies beyond 
may be stopped by the pyreen. The halflings' benefactors are gentler, more kind to them 
than they would be to outsiders, but the pyreens' dedication is absolute. Obviously, 
however, it is a simple matter for travelers to pass through the region without attracting 
the attention of the pyreen. The pyreen are powerful, but few. 

Thri-Kreen 

The most ancient enemies of the rhul-thaun are the mantis warriors. The thri-kreen 
empire is powerful and expansionists, but for many millennia the Jagged Cliffs and the 
swamp that lies at their feet have stymied its advance. The halflings have long viewed 
the thri-kreen as a threat to the entire world, which they believe is still populated almost 
solely by halflings. The kreen-as the halflings call them-are seen as evil, insidious 
monsters with no relation whatever to the halflings or life and its sanctity. Somehow, the 
halfling mind-set holds that the thri-kreen existed apart from the rhulisti and the nature 
that they mastered. 

Communication between the rhul-thaun and the kreen has never been successfully 
achieved. Contact has always been limited to the brief, violent encounters that occur 
when the mantis warriors attempt to find yet another method to navigate the swamp and 
scale the cliffs. Prisoners are never taken by either side (the thri-kreen, in fact, eat theirs). 
The rhul-thaun know that the attacks intensify 1 year in every 25. While the reasons for 
this cycle are not understood, they also know that every time these major offensives 
come, the main kreen force is somehow different both in its appearance and its abilities. 

For example, mantis warriors seem to have new physical adaptations that allow them 
to scale the cliffs more swiftly, acclimate to the dampness of the swamp, or counter the 
life-shaped weapons of the halflings. The rhul-thaun believe that this is because there 
are many species of thri-kreen, but the real reason is that the mantis warriors have skills 
and techniques that allow them to modify their bodies and adapt to new situations. This 
is very similar to halfling life-shaping, but rather than creating new organisms as tools, 
they recreate themselves. 

All the knowledge of the thri-kreen that the rhul-thaun possess comes from one of two 


11 


sources. The first are the reports of brave adventurers and scouts who ventured into the 
savanna the thri-kreen call home. These forays did not delve too deeply into their deadly 
territory, for hunting parties of kreen are quick to bring down halfling explorers on the 
open plains. Many spying parties, in fact, never returned. No death is more distasteful to 
the rhul-thaun than to end up in the mandibles of hungry kreen. The adventurers who do 
return tell of current activities and movements of large numbers of mantis warriors, as 
well as a glimmer of kreen society, culture, or lore. For example, spies have learned that 
beyond the empire of the kreen lies a body of water that may even be larger than the 
swamp. They also know that kreen come in many types and colors, rather than just the 
singular form with which those in the Tyr Region are familiar. 

The second source of information about the kreen is, in reality, speculation and outright 
fiction. Stories of imperial kreen as told by family elders and the professional storytellers of 
the safehomes are popular forms of entertainment. Myths commonly spread about the 
kreen include tales that the farther one travels into the savanna, the larger the mantis war 
riors become (some "as tall as 20 or 30 rhul-thaun standing on each others heads!"), 
rumors that kreen can hypnotize prey by staring and moving rhythmically, and the singu 
lar legend that they create towering cities built from the crushed bones of their foes. 

The Lost Clans 

Halfling fables tell of a number of clans to the far, far north who long ago lost contact 
with the rest of society. Different versions of these tales each cite a distinct reason for 
the isolation. Some claim that the lost halflings left to find a better land in which to 
make their homes. Others contend that they were outcasts and nonconformists who dis 
liked the way rhul-thaun society worked. Still others tell tales of a great disaster, an 
earthquake, plague, or invasion that drove the clans away. Even the pterrans, during a 
period of rare communication, have alluded to other halfling communities on the cliffs 
beyond those known to the rhul-thaun. 

In any event, the surmised existence of the lost clans has never been confirmed. 
Sometimes climbers and windriders claim to have seen the villages of the lost clans-or 
even claim membership in the clans of lost names. No real evidence exists to prove 
their reality. If halfling clans do lie to the north, several unanswered questions are still to 
be raised. How has their society deviated from the rhul-thaun during the thousands of 
years of separation? What life-shaping skills might they have retained that are lost to the 
rhul-thaun? What else lies to the mysterious north? 



75 








Wanderer's 
Journal 

The fundamental word of 
the Jagged Cliffs is, of 
course, life. The very 
forces and energies of 
life obey the half lings' 
commands, forming 
tools, weapons, build- m 
ings, and guardians. It is 
not magic, nor is it any 
ability within their minds 
that allows them shape life 
so completely. What is this 
strange lore? I 
believe that 
they practice 
an esoteric 
art of some 
sort, but its 
secrets lie 
beyond me. 

The masters 
of this craft 
are called 
life-shapers 
and they con 
trol not only 
the facets and 
shapes of liv 
ing things, 
but they hold 
most of the 
political 

power in halfling society. 

Do not let the irony of the 
shapers be lost upon you. The 
most revered 
of all rhul- 
thaun pre 
cepts is the 
sanctity of 

life. The shapers work with life as 
potters work with clay. Yet these 
masters of life are the dark shad 
ows behind the half lings' entire 
culture. They employ assassins to 
eliminate their enemies and seek 
nothing short of complete domi 
nation of the race. Their lust for 
power is not commonly known, 
but those half lings whom I have 
encountered suspect the shapers 
of hidden motives and they are 
consumed with suspicion. 



WAtft! 

CHAPTER 5: 



The Shapers 
of Life 


Life-shaping is the art that allows the rhul-thaun to create everything from simple 
tools to large buildings out of living tissues. This ancient, arcane craft is the unique 
aspect of the civilization established by the halflings of the Jagged Cliffs, 


The Life-shaper 


"To hold a living creature in your hand, and truly understand the power and majesty 
of what you grasp. To shape and create not a tool or an object, but a creature to 
work for you. To see that what you have wrought is what others see as the purview of 
nature itself. This is what you must desire above all things." 

-An excerpt from the Exhortation of Apprentices, by Ges-afith 

The life-shapers are a powerful and influential circle in rhul-thaun society. Each 
shaper is rigorously trained and vigorously indoctrinated. Because of the limitations 
these skills would place on adventurers, player character life-shapers should not be 
permitted. Native Rhul-thaun life-shapers would not be allowed to leave on adven 
tures and they would never teach outsiders the necessary skills, even if they were 
willing to devote the years of study required. 


Place in Society 


The apparent purpose of the shapers is to provide the rhul-thaun with life-shaped 
tools and structures. Their true purpose, however, like the shapers themselves, is 
cloaked in the shadows of their sanctuaries. 

Although the leader of the shapers is the well-known and highly respected Loi Far- 


74 


oneth, those privy to the inner councils of the organization would say that it is his 
right-hand man, Gil-ogres, who truly holds the reins of the group. While Loi focuses 
his attention on lofty, philosophical issues-preservation of the old ways through rit 
ual and intense devotion-Gil-ogres manipulates the shapers to do his will. He seeks 
total mastery of rhul-thaun civilization. 

Most people are not aware of these ambitions or of the organization's questionable, 
subtle machinations. They believe that the shapers are selfless creators struggling to 
preserve the past and maintain the present. As a group and individually they garner 
great respect. People outside the order view them as quasi-religious figures. Those who 
do not particularly revere them, at the very least, respect their skills and power. 

Those few who know or suspect the truth, fear the shapers. These fears are justified, 
for Gil-ogres is a ruthless man who never hesitates to eliminate an enemy if the need 
presents itself. The shapers actually have a covert legion of assassins and thugs under 
the control of Gil-ogres. The assassins are called the ghav-nosh and are based out of 
the sanctuary in the village of Sahr-tosh. 

Organizational Methods and Goals 

During the formative years of their education, shapers are taught that they are supe 
rior to their fellow halflings. Since their skills are beyond the ken of other rhul-thaun 
and the preservation of shaper knowledge is the most important duty a halfling can 
perform, they view themselves as the elite of rhul-thaun society. 

Their goals include the preservation and proliferation of their art. Many shapers 
believe that if situations were different, they could even regain some of the skills and 
bits of knowledge lost over the centuries. They believe that they are the keys to recov 
ering and rebuilding their civilization to its former glory, to the splendor it possessed 
during the Blue Age of Athas. The restoration of ancient greatness is their ultimate goal. 

To further their ends, they believe that manipulating the larger society to foster life 
shaping is necessary as is the reconstruction of the past. Gil-ogres believes that the 
complete domination of rhul-thaun society is mandatory if the shapers are to be 
allowed to properly fulfill their ambitions. Beyond the loftier goal, of course, his 
interest lies in accruing personal power. 

To manipulate and control the society in which they live, the life-shapers have a 
major advantage. They alone produce the most important commodities in the Jagged 
Cliffs. Their skills provide food, clothing, shelter, tools, weapons, transportation, and 
every convenience available to the rhul-thaun. Their control of these goods gives 
them the power to manipulate the economy, raising or lowering their prices as they 
see fit. A change in the prices of life-shaped products either inflates or deflates the 
value of money, thereby altering even the prices of products that have nothing to do 
the shapers. They are the puppet masters of the rhul-thaun economic structure. 

Further, the life-shapers can influence those in power. The har-etuil are well accus 
tomed to the subtle threats of the shapers. If the judgment makers cross the life- 
shapers, their clan or community may lose access to life-shaped goods. In sly whispers, 
the shapers have even suggested to the Conclave that they might withhold all of their 
creations from sale if their views did not prevail in certain key decisions. They also 
claim to have the means to destroy all shaped creations with a powerful virus. 

Not even most of the shapers are aware that the virus is a lie, merely a bluff. Their 
superiors tell them that it really does exist, stored in a secret location known only to 
the higher echelons. However, the shapers lost the knowledge necessary to make viral 
constructs long ago, and there is no significant virus stored in any known location. 

Other clandestine operations that the shapers keep well-hidden from public 
scrutiny are their experiments. In order to regain the power of the ancient life- 
shapers, they manipulate rituals for which they possess only fragmentary records. 
These investigations are dangerous and supposedly forbidden. Unknown to them all, 
it was just such a trial that consumed the village of Bav-rem just a few months ago. 


75 


Shaper Worldview 

"Fear the future, revere the past. All good things are ancient of days, Life now is dark 
and hard compared to our time of glory and power. It is our duty to bring back the 
days of triumph, We must return to the ways of the past. We must recapture the 
essence of the old ones, the essence of ourselves. 

Today, people have no respect for these truths. They reject the very idea of history as 
valueless. They hold our most cherished rituals in contempt and scoff at the recitations 
of our honored chronicles. Some even believe that we should leave the cliffs to seek 
what lies beyond them. It is our duty to guide our people along the right path, 
whether they see the righteousness in that path or not. 

The mental aberrations* that befall some of our people are not blessings, but curses. 
These powers appeared long ago, true, but the rhulisti never had them and never 
needed such crude, base skills. They relied upon their intellects, imaginations, and 
ingenuities. 

Other so-called intelligent beings are an anathema. In ancient days, there were no 
races. The rhulisti were the sole masters and controlled the whole world. Races such 
as the pterrans and bvanen had no place. The kreen are obviously the enemies of all 
that is good. We must not let our people have congress with those of lesser races, nor 
should we allow them to pay heed to the rumors that even more races exist beyond 
the cliffs. " 

Portion of a graduation speech given by Loi Far-oneth 10 years ago-still frequently 
quoted. 

* Psionics 



76 











The Life of a Shaper 

Not surprisingly, most of a shaper's day is taken up working the craft. The shapers con 
duct their rituals, working with pith in order to grow their creations. Furthermore, they 
must monitor the development of the new forms, feeding and nourishing them as they 
mature. This is time-consuming work, filled with long and complicated rituals. 

The few moments remaining are devoted to the organization, carrying out required 
tasks, depending on station. These duties include delivering completed products to mer 
chants for sale, carrying messages, and other menial tasks. Shapers on errands within a 
community at least reap the benefit of the respect that they receive from others. 

All shapers live in the sanctuaries that are found in virtually every rhul-thaun com 
munity. Life in the sanctuaries is communal, stark, and rigorously regimented. Like any 
monastic religious order, shapers (particularly low-level shapers) have a rigid structure 
of life that provides a spare, meager existence. They devote all of their attention and 
most of their waking hours to their craft. 

The Lore of Life 

Life-shaping is a craft that may, in some ways, resemble magic or even psionics in its 
ultimate effects but it has nothing to do with either. Shaping is, in its purest sense, the 
physical control of the fundamental forces of life itself. This ancient art gives a shaper 
the ability to create and mold living tissues and entire organisms as he desires. By 
working with the processes of growth and function in living creatures, life-shapers can 
fashion organisms that fulfill specific needs just as a blacksmith of another culture 
would craft a tool or weapon from iron. 

Unfortunately, the rhul-thaun of today do not truly comprehend the art they practice. 
The concepts are lost to them, as are many specific skills involved in the creation of 


77 


life-shaped organisms. Rather than any real understanding, they maintain only the 
knowledge of the motions necessary to perform some of the tasks necessary to use the 
craft. The rhulisti could fashion complex living tools and creatures far beyond the capa 
bilities of those of who practice the art today. 

The ancient rhulisti began their researches using a porous, rocklike plant. This simple 
life-form was easy to manipulate and difficult to injure. From this rudimentary begin 
ning, they learned to handle and exploit more complex forms of life-they became 
masters of the world with their skills. 

The basic building block of life, as the rhul-thaun understand it, is a substance they 
call pith. This organic mush is the most basic substance common to all creatures of the 
flesh, and is absolutely essential to grow and form the shapes. They fashion the pith 
matrix into a thick, clear syrup. Various processes are needed to stimulate raw pith and 
force it to develop specific creations. Often the use of other life-shaped tools, such as 
shockwands, is necessary for more complex devices. 

Considering that the shapers conduct these activities during rituals, an outsider would 
probably guess that the processes were magical. 

Classifications of Shaped Objects 

There are three types of life-shaped creations: Those that comprise living tissue but are 
not actually independent creatures; living creatures themselves; and the organic products 
of living creatures. Much of the difference between them lies in their care and require 
ments. It should also be noted that the organic products in the last category are not alive, 
but merely organically derived. The other two classes of shaped objects are alive. 

Besides these three varieties, shaped products can be further separated into different 
classifications according to their use. These may also be found under three headings. 
Some of the objects are straight forward, tools, weapons, armor, and medications, oth 
ers require additional explanation. 

Some of the most common life-shaped creations are grafts. Grafts differ from other 
shapes in that they physically attach to their wearers, who are called "hosts," and form 
symbiotic relationships with them. This means that a graft absorbs nutrients from the 
host's body, but the host gains some benefit from the graft as well. Grafts are presented 
in their own section, although a few special grafts are listed under Armor and Weapons. 

Producers are shaped creations whose sole purpose is to manufacture other prod 
ucts. Some grow long, wooly fur that is then sheared, spun, and woven. Others pro 
duce edible eggs, shed leathery hides, or secrete valuable medicines. Engines are 
shaped that drive other devices-they may be used to heat a structure, power a flour 
grinder, or pump water from a pool. 

Damage, Disease, and Death 

All living shapes and tissues have hit points and Armor Classes. As a rule, Small shaped 
creations have 1 HD, Medium size shapes have 2 HD, and larger items have 3 HD. 

Obviously, there are exceptions. Weapons and armor, meant to take a lot of punish 
ment, have more HD. Tougher, longer lasting armor can be purchased from the life- 
shapers at 20 ge per each additional HD. 

Weapons take 1 point of damage per strike (whether offensive of defensive). If the 
DM chooses to use critical hits and damage, weapons take 2 points of damage. 

Left alone, damaged life-shaped creatures heal at the rate of 1 hp per day. There are 
healing tools that can speed the recovery rate. Organic products, because they are not 
living, are repaired like any normal item. 

Composition determines shaped Armor Class. Soft creations, such as clingbags, 
have an AC of 8 to 10, harder items have an AC of 4 to 6, while very hard articles, 
such as armor, can have an AC of 0. 

In the case of armor, the Armor Class is the amount of protection it provides. 
Sustained damage is divided equally between the armor and the wearer. If the armor 
dies or is reduced to 0 hit points, it ceases to provide any protection. 

If a character is attacked while wearing a shaped creation or has one on his person, it 
is always assumed that the character, not his shaped item, is being attacked. Area effect 


78 


attacks, such as a fireball, however do affect shaped objects. Shaped creations can be 
also targeted in an attack if the assailant wishes. In this case, use the creation's AC and 
when its hit points reach 0, any additional points of damage affect the character. 

The saving throws of shaped creations are as for a warrior of the same level (HD) as 
the shape. Constructs with less than 1 HD save as level 0 warriors. 

If exposed to any sort of disease, virus, or infection, living shaped creations must 
make saving throws. Additionally, there is a 1% chance per week that a living object 
becomes infected with a virus, disease, or malady of some sort. There is a 10% 
chance that these conditions are fatal. If they are not, the shape suffers for 1 dl0 days. 
During such times, the creation is only 50% as effective as normal. Shaped weapons 
attack with a -2 penalty to attack and damage rolls and Armor Class is reduced by 2. 

Since the organic products of life-shaped creatures cannot die, they simply use the 
normal item saving throws and damage rules in Chapter 9 of the DMG. 

Armor 

With the exception of wood, stone, and bone clubs, the rhul-thaun life-shape all of 
their armor and weapons. Through elementary, ritual processes, they produce daggers, 
maces, axes, short swords (simply called swords), slings, shields, and spears. They also 
produce some unique weapons and armor, and these are detailed below. 

Class restrictions on armor and weapons are fairly straightforward. Priests can use all 
of the armor and the titan hurler, shock stick, grappler, life leech, and spore pods. 
Specialty priest weapon restrictions always vary. Since these weapons cannot be strictly 
defined as "edged weapons" because of their organic nature, a DM may want to allow 
elemental priests and druids access to all of them. Rogues can use all of these weapons 
except the warstaff, flashlance, and hurling titan, but they restrict them to hide armor. 
Warriors can use any of the armor or weapons. Wizards, though there are none among 
the rhul-thaun, cannot use any of the armor and can select only clawgrafts, life 
leeches, spore pods, and shocksticks as weapons. 



79 




Armor 


Armor Table 


Armor 

AC 

Wgt 

HD 

Cost 

Half Shell 

2 

35 

5 

50 

Hide 

7 

10 

3 

20 

Sheath 

4 

12 

4 

80 

Sheath, Hidden 

8/5 

10 

4 

100 

Shell 

0 

50 

6 

150 


Half-Shell Armor (Tissue, 5 HD, AC 2): This armor consists of tissue hardened to the 
strength of stone. It covers the torso with a single, inflexible breastplate and smaller 
pieces that cover the shoulders and upper legs. Half shell armor can be made to fit any 
humanoid creature up to and including half-giants. 

Hide Armor (Product, 3 HD, AC 7): This armor is similar to the leather armor worn by 
other cultures, although it is designed to be tougher, more protective, and less cumber 
some to wear. Negative modifiers to thief abilities from wearing leather armor are 
halved when wearing shaped hide instead. 

Sheath Armor (Tissue, 4 HD, AC 4): This armor is applied to the entire body of the 
wearer as though it were a thick black paste. It conforms to the wearer's body perfectly, 
hardening in most areas, but remaining flexible and tough in areas that bend and move. 
Since it is nothing more than a pot of paste before it is put on, it can be applied to any 
creature or surface. 

Sheath Armor, Hidden (Creature, 4 HD, AC 8/5): This sophisticated armor resembles 
normal sheath armor, but it is transparent and not as thick. It remains in a flexible state 
at AC 8 until struck, at which point it hardens to become sheath armor, AC 5. After 10 
rounds pass without the armor being struck, it reverts to its flexible, transparent state. 
While transparent, it is only noticeable 20% of the time and only 10% of the time if 
clothing is worn over it. 

Shell Armor (Tissue, 6 HD, AC 0): This armor is identical to half-shell armor except 
that its plates cover the entire body with fibrous tissue connecting the joints. It can be 
produced to fit any humanoid smaller than a half-giant. 

Shields 

Shield Table 

Shield AC Wgt HD Cost 

Climber's 2 8 3 10 

Spineshield 4 6 2 10 

Climber's Shield (Creature, Graft; 3 HD, AC 2): This is one of the most sophisticated and 
coveted bits of life-shaped equipment, particularly for climbers. This device looks like a 
round, hard, chitinous shield mounted on a 3-foot long tentacle. The tentacle attaches to 
the host (virtually anywhere on the torso). With a sophisticated vibration sensing organ, 
the shield can detect incoming attacks and move to intercept them. This gives the host 
the benefit of a shield but without the necessity of using hands or arms. Climbers use 
these shields to protect them when they are climbing. 

Spineshield (Creature, 2 HD, AC 4/10): This formidable, medium size shield has 
dozens of 1 to 3 inch spines covering its surface. In many ways, the spineshield oper 
ates like a spine thrower (see Weapons), firing its spines at nearby foes. It also functions 
as a normal shield, however, and can even be used as a melee weapon inflicting 1d8 
damage in combat. If used as a weapon, either melee or ranged, it cannot be used as a 
shield in the same round and is AC 10 in that case. 



80 





Weapons 


Weapons Table 





Damage 

Weapon 


Wgt 


Type 



L 

Armblade 

75 

5 

M 

S 

5 

1d8 

1d8+1 

Armspike 

50 

5 

M 

P 

6 

1d6 

1d4 

Clawgraft (each) 

5 

3 

s 

s 

4 

varies 

- 

Flashlance 

30 

8 

S/M 

p 

6 

1 d6/1 dl 0 

1 d8/1 dl 2 

Hurling Titan 

35 

9 

M 

B 

9 

1d8 

1d6 

Mandibles 

150 

8 

L 

- 

7 

- 

- 

Quickstrike 

50 

5 

S 

P 

3 

1d6 

1d4 

Shockstick 1 

25 

3 

M 

B 

5 

1d6* 

1d6* 

Spinethrower 2 

75 

3 

M 

P 

5 

1d6+1 

1d6 

Warstaff 

150 

10 

M 

P/B 

10 

1d8+1 

1 dl 0 

1 This weapon inflicts 1d6 additional 

points of electrical damage every 

six rounds 


2 This weapon can 

also fire 

1d6 spines each inflicting 1d3 points of damage. 


Special Weapons 

Table 













Damage 

Weapon 

Cost 

Wgt 

Size 

Type 

Speed 

S-M 

L 

Deathspray 

100 

12 

M 

- 

8 

- 

- 

Grappler 

75 

10 

M 

- 

12 

- 

- 

Life Leech 1 
Spore pods: 

100 

8 

M 

- 

10 

1d6 

1 d6 

Irritant 

1 

1 

S 

- 

2 

- 

- 

Sleep 

2 

1 

S 

- 

2 

- 

- 

Poison 

3 

1 

s 

- 

2 

- 

- 

1 The first time this weapon 

strikes 

a particular foe, it inflicts 1 dl2 damage 


Missile Weapon 

Ranges 







Weapon 

ROF 

S 

M 

L 




Deathspray 

1 

1 

114 

2 




Grappler 

1/10 

y 2 

1 

114 




Spinethrower 

1d6 

i 

2 

3 





Armblade (Tissue Graft; 4 HD, AC 4): This weapon grafts onto a host's forearm. It has a 
long blade that extends outward and forward from the arm. The entire blade is about 2 
feet long and 5 inches wide. The weapon can be used to slash and stab foes in combat. 
Because it is fastened directly onto the arm, it frees the user's hands for other things. 

Armspike (Tissue Graft; 4 HD, AC 4): The armspike also welds itself to a host's forearm. 
It has from one to three spikes, 3 to 6 inches in length, projecting outward from the 
wielder's arm. The weapon can be used to slash and pierce foes in close quarter combat. 
Because it grafts to the arm, it frees the user's hands for other things. 

Clawgrafts (Tissue, Graft; 4 HD, AC 6): These tiny grafts attach to the host's fingers. 

Each is a claw approximately 1 Vfe inches long. They allow the wielder to rake and slash 
foes like natural claws. Damage inflicted depends on how many claws are worn. One 
claw inflicts 1 point of damage, two or three inflict 1d3 points of damage, and four or 
five inflict 1d6 points of damage. Evil characters with clawgrafts often add poison nod 
ules to increase the deadliness of their attacks. 

Deathspray (Creature, 4 HD, AC 6): This creature resembles a 2-foot long, scaled tube 
with a wide, bulbous nodule on one end and a narrow opening at the other. The creature 
produces a caustic, poisonous venom that can be sprayed from the aperture to a distance 
of 15 feet. An attack roll is required. The spray inflicts 1d6 damage, but a saving throw 
vs. poison is required. The poison is Class H (Method: Ingested; Onset: 1-4 hours; 
Strength: 20/10). The venom must be sprayed in the eyes, nose, or mouth. 

Flashlance (Creature, 6 HD, AC 2): This weapon is a 3-foot long spear that can be used 
as a stabbing weapon. When activated by squeezing the handle, the lance rapidly 
extends outward, telescoping a razor sharp point into a foe. When activated, the lance 


81 


extends itself to a length of 6 feet for an instant-just long enough to inflict 1 d 10 points 
of damage rather than the normal 1d6. The lance retracts automatically. 

Grappler (Creature, 6 HD, AC 2): This ranged weapon is a creature approximately 28 
inches long. Like a deathsprayer, it has a pod on one end and an orifice on the other. 
When activated, the grappler fires a stream of long, sticky cords, which resemble frog 
tongues, to a distance of 30 feet. Anyone struck by the cords becomes entangled. Fifty 
percent of the time, the target's arms are trapped and no attacks or actions requiring the 
use of arms can be undertaken. The victim loses all shield and Dexterity bonuses and 
can be pulled about, with a 25% chance of being pulled to the ground. The victim can 
escape on a successful bend bars/lift gates roll. A grappler cannot be reused while a vic 
tim is entangled, and even after the target is freed, it can only be used again after 1d6 
rounds-it takes that long for the cords to retract. 

Hurling Titan (Tissue, 4 HD, AC 4): This weapon resembles a large mace or (especially 
in the hands of a halfling) a maul. Like other shaped melee weapons, it consists of hard 
ened tissue. The hurling titan's head has a liquid core, however. When swung, the nucleus 
creates a momentum of centrifugal force, allowing it to do great damage despite its size. 

Life Leech (Creature, 3 HD, AC 4): This is a 7-foot pole with a 2-inch ball on one end. 
When the ball is touched to a living creature, the weapon rapidly absorbs nutrients and 
water from the victim. The draining effect is reflected in the target's loss of 1 dl2 points of 
damage. The first strike of a leech injects a mild sedative around the wound. The sedative 
reduces the effect of further attacks so that additional hits on the same target within a 24- 
hour period inflict only 1d6 damage. This weapon requires a special combat technique 
since it is not sturdy enough to be swung with great force, its touch must be light. 

Life Leech Sword (see Rhulisti Artifacts). 

Mandibles (Tissue, 3 HD, AC 6): This weapon is identical to the mancatcher described 
in the PHB except that it can be used to "bite" for 1d6 points of damage without "catch 
ing" a foe if the user so desires. 

Quickstrike (Creature, Graft; 4 HD, AC 4): Like the armblade, this graft is worn on the 
forearm. It is thin enough so that it can be hidden underneath a loose, long sleeved shirt 
or a cloak. When activated by pressing on the back of the creature, an 8-inch long spike 
protrudes from the graft at the host's wrist, roughly parallel with the arm. 

Shockstick (Creature, 3 HD, AC 4): This club-shaped creature consists of a hard outer 
shell. It absorbs and stores static electricity (like an electric eel), discharging it into those 
struck with the weapon. It can only release a shock once every three rounds, but the 
electricity inflicts an additional 1d6 points of damage. 

Spinethrower (Creature, 4 HD, AC 4): This weapon resembles a spiked mace. The head 
is covered with 1d4x10 spines, from one to three inches long. Besides its use as a melee 
weapon, however, it can be stimulated to fire its spines at foes 

at a distance of up to 90 yards. It fires 1d6 spines per round, each inflicting 1d3 points of 
damage (each requires its own attack roll and all of them must be thrown at the same 
target). The spines grow back in 1d4 days. 

Spore Pod (Tissue, 4 hp, AC 8): These small weapons are organic spheres that look like 
tiny eggs. Each can be thrown at a target. They burst open on contact and release a cloud 
of tiny spores. The spores explode in a radius of 10 feet and have the potential to affect 
every breathing creature in that area, though life-shaped breathermasks do protect 
against spores and dangerous gases. There are three types of spore pods, and the spores 
they contain can have one of three different effects. 

The effect of the first type of spore is irritation. The spores cover living foes and cause them 
to itch, break out in a rash, sneeze, and suffer from blurred vision. When a spore pod opens, 
everyone within 10 feet must make a saving throw vs. poison or be debilitated for one round 
(no actions possible). After that, they suffer a -1 penalty to attacks and damage for 1d4 days. 

The second kind of pod produces sleep spores that their victims to fall into a deep hal 
lucinogenic fit of unconsciousness. The effect lasts for 1d4+1 rounds and must be 
resisted by a saving throw vs. poison by all within 10 feet of the spore pod. 

The last type is the most dangerous. Poison spores act as Class I poisons (Method: Ingested; 
Onset: 2-12 minutes; Strength: 30/15) on all those within 10 feet of the pod's burst. 

Warstaff (Tissue, 4 HD, AC 4): This weapon is 5 feet long and made of hardened tissue. 
One, and occasionally both ends, have heavy, spherical heads on which are fixed five 6- 
inch blades. Four of the razor-sharp knives project outward in the four compass points. 
The fifth barb extends directly out from the head. 


81 



ipment 

The following sections detail most shaped creations made by rhul-thaun life-shapers. It 
should be noted that these are but pale reflections of the great shaped creations of the 
rhulisti when they ruled Athas. 

The life-shapers are also able to reproduce any item on the PHB equipment listed as 
leather, bone, or wood. Furthermore, even items such as iron spikes or rope can be 
reproduced from pith by life-shaping. These substitutes are all organic products as 
opposed to actual living creatures. 

Life-shapers can slightly modify only a few of these creations. If any such modifications 
are possible, they are noted in the description. 

Tools 

Shaped tools come in many varieties. This category includes actual tools as well as cloth 
ing and special, unique items. All prices are given in ghav-egoths. 

Air Burster (Creature, 4 hp, AC 4): This creature looks like a foot-long tube with a large, 
membranous air sack on one end and a round, 6-inch wide pod on the other. When 
pressure is placed on the underside of the tube, the creature's membrane fills with air. An 
object smaller than 6 inches in length is then be inserted into the pod. When the air sack 
is squeezed, air pressure ejects the object from the pod with an explosive burst of air. 
Virtually any small object can be launched up to 100 yards. Charges commonly used in 
air bursters include grappling hooks (attached to ropes), spore bombs, and small nets 
(wadded up inside the pod). In desperate situations, small, sharp objects can be placed 
in the pod and fired as projectile weapons. 

Air Filter (Creature, 4 hp, AC 8): This 1-foot diameter, spongy globe continuously recy- 


83 



Price list 

Air Burster 

50 

Air Filter 

25 

Acidic Spawn 

35 

Bond 

14 

Breather 

16 

Chameleon cloak 

90 

Climbing Boots 

60 

Climbing Gloves 

55 

Clingbag 

10 

Clingpad 

5 

Clingrope 

5 per foot 

Coolcloak 

25 

Directional Sensor 

27 

Disposer 

60 

Dry anchor 

15 

Drycloak 

30 

Gillmask 

45 

Glowpod 

10 

Grasping Hook 

25 

Grasping Rod 

30 

Lifechair 

10-30 

Lock, Hard Key 

75 

Lock, Soft Key 

100 

Lockpick 

65 

Malleable Tool 

40 

Poison Nodule 

55 

Scrubslug 

5 

Sensor 

80 

Shockwand 

30 

Slicksuit 

42 

Stealth boots 

55 

Storage Pod 

10 

Warmcloak 

12 

Water Absorber 

35 

Water Condenser 

55 


cles air, breathing in carbon dioxide, smoke, and even foul odors, and breathing out 
pure, clean air. After one month of use, the creature should be washed to rid it of dust, 
smoke particles, and everything else it has filtered out of the air. If this is not done, it 
chokes to death. 

Acidic Spawn (Creature, 5 hp, AC 8): This creature looks much like an urn or flask 
made of pulsing flesh. At the "mouth" of the urn a bowl-shaped depression secretes a 
powerful acid when the creature is squeezed. The acid is strong enough to eat through 
fabric in one round, leather in two, and wood in five. It is not vigorous enough to 
destroy stone, so it is useful for cleaning dirt and debris from stone objects. Living crea 
tures receive 1 point of damage per round of contact with the acid. Acidic spawn is 
immune to its own acid. 

Bond (Creature, 4 HD, AC 6): This creature looks like a tube, 6 inches long, closed on 
both ends. One end has a small aperture from which a syrupy gel is produced. The gel 
hardens quickly, bonding with whatever materials are to be joined. It makes a power 
ful, permanent adhesive seal and is used as a tar sealant to fill or repair holes in con 
structions and fix broken equipment. A bend bars roll is required to break the bond. 
Because of its organic nature, the gel can even repair damaged life-shaped items com 
prising living tissue. It cannot be used to good effect on creatures, however-it is too 
crude a treatment. 

Breathermask (Tissue, 4 hp, AC 8): An organic face mask, this shape fits over a wearer's 
lower face, covering the nose and mouth. A complex series of tissue layers filters the 
air, removing most impurities and toxins and allowing the wearer to breathe normally. 
The filtration system gives the user a +4 bonus to saving throws in situations having to 
do with poison gas or any other attacks that assault a victim's respiratory system. The 
mask fits nearly all beings smaller than half-giants. 

Chameleon Cloak (Creature, 2 hp, AC 8): This living garment responds to variables in 
light and temperature and allows its wearer to blend into his surroundings. While not 
nearly as effective as invisibility, this cloak adds 10 to the wearer's hiding abilities. If 
the wearer has no special hiding abilities, the cloak provides a 15% chance not to be 
visually detected in any environment. The cloak does not fit humanoid creatures larger 
than halflings, nor can it be altered to equip larger creatures. 

Climbing Boots (Tissue, 1 HD, AC 8): While they appear to be normal boots of hard 
leather, these living boots add a +5 bonus to a climber's chance of climbing (maximum 
99%). They accomplish this by being reactively pliable-their shape alters to conform 
to the contours of whatever substance the wearer is climbing. Since they are malleable, 
any humanoid creature smaller than a half-giant can wear these boots. 

Climbing Gloves (Tissue, 1 HD, AC 8): Like climbing boots, these living gloves change 
texture and shape to give climbers better adhesion on whatever they are climbing. They 
add a +5 bonus to climbers' chances to climb. The bonus is cumulative with bonuses 
from climbing boots, but the maximum chances are still 99%. Because of their mal 
leability, climbing gloves can be worn by any humanoids smaller than half-giants. 
Clingbag (Tissue, Large; 2 HD, AC 8. Small; 1 HD, AC 8): These leather bags come in 
two sizes, large (40 pounds maximum) and small (10 pounds maximum). The unique 
aspect of the clingbags is that one side of the bag is made of living tissue that secretes a 
powerful, adhesive web that can support the 
bag and its contents when pressed against 
another object. Clingbags can be stuck to 
walls, belts, people's backs, or any other 
surface. With a firm pull, they are remov 
able and can be attached to different sur 
faces. 

Clingpad (Tissue, 1 HD, AC 8): These 
pieces of leathery tissue are 1-foot in 
diameter, have the same properties of 
clingbags, and can support up to 20 
pounds of weight. Both sides secrete the 
same adhesive, enabling them to be 
used to join different items. In fact, many 
people use clingpads to attach glowpods 
to ceilings and walls. 



84 



Clingrope (Tissue, 4 HD, AC 8): Made from the same material as clingbags and pads, 
clingrope has patches of adhesive tissue that make it easier to tie them firmly around 
other objects. Those skilled in rope-use simply fling one around an object, loop it a few 
times, and the rope creates a strong grip. If this trick is used to grapple a living creature, 
treat the clingrope as an adhesive lasso. Creatures tied up with clingrope find it twice as 
hard to slip or break their bonds. In all other respects, clingrope should be treated as nor 
mal rope. 

Coolcloak (Creature, 4 hp, AC 8): These living creatures were created to maintain very 
cool body temperatures and may be used to alleviate discomfort in hot climates. The 
hoods of these cloaks have organic, adhesive clasps. They can be adjusted during their 
creation to fit any humanoid creatures smaller than half-giants. 

Directional Sensor (Creature, 2 hp, AC 8): This tiny, cone-shaped creature always senses 
north, pointing its narrow end in that direction whenever placed on a flat surface. 
Disposer (Creature, 2 HD, AC 4): This pod creature is 4 feet tall and 3 feet wide. It has an 
aperture at its top that is as wide as its body and functions as the creature's mouth. The 
disposer is entirely digestive system. It can break down virtually any organic waste mater 
ial-food scraps, human waste, dead creatures, or plant material. It converts these sub 
stances into gases-and into the soupy paste known to the shapers as pith. 

Dry Anchor (Tissue, 1 HD, AC 8): This sticky blob of organic putty secretes a strong 
adhesive that is unaffected by moisture. Climbers use it to counter wet surfaces. By stick 
ing dry anchors to the rocks, they can use them as dry handholds or anchors for hooks 
and ropes despite the mist. 

Drycloak (Product): This cloak is not a living creature, but merely an organic product of 
life-shaped engineering. It appears to consist of a particularly slick, shiny cloth. The 
cloaks main function is to keep the wearer dry by repelling water. Rain and mist droplets 
simply bead and run off the cloak in rivulets. It can be modified during crafting to fit any 
humanoid creature smaller than a half-giant. 

Gillmask (Creature, 1 HD, AC 8): Similar in some respects to a breather, the gillmask fits 
over the mouth and nose of the wearer. Along its sides, it has gill slits that perform like 
those of fish. The wearer can breathe underwater while wearing the mask. The masks fit 
virtually any creatures smaller than half-giants. 

Glowpod (Creature, 4 hp, AC 8): Living spheres of bioluminescent tissue, glowpods are 
similar to the abdomens of fireflies. The pods are roughly 1-foot in diameter and 
extremely lightweight. Each gives the illumination of a torch, but provides no heat what 
ever. The halflings mount them on sticks fastened with thin clingrope to create torches 
and keep them in their homes to provide light and mood settings-covering one with 
thin, colored gauze produces colored light. Virtually every community uses glowpods for 
lighting streets, walkways, and alleys at night. 

Grasping Hook (Creature, 2 HD, AC 8): Similar to conventional grappling hooks, this tool 
resembles a claw with four talons spaced equidistantly around a central palm. When the 
palm is stimulated, the claws reflexively clench. Attached to ropes and flung to grasp 
secure objects, grasping hooks are very useful to climbers. The hooks have a grasping 
Strength of 20. 

Grasping Rod (Creature, 1 HD, AC 8): This is a grasping hook mounted on a sturdy, 
organic pole, 10 feet in length. It is useful for reaching and snatching objects that are 
otherwise out of normal reach. 

Lifechair (Creature, 4 hp, AC 8): More than just a chair, this shape actually includes a 
number of different kinds of furniture. Sofas, beds, lounge chairs, and even life-shaper 
designed tables, each grown to be soft, sturdy, and either comfortably warm or pleasantly 
cool. Many find the pulsing of the lifechair's body fluids to be restful when they retire. 
Strangers to life-shaped objects are unable to distinguish between this furniture and that 
of the normal, nonliving sort-until they sit and feel one for a moment. 

Lock, Hard Key (Creature, 1 HD, AC 4): This resembles a normal lock and key, similar to 
those found anywhere on Athas. It is made of hard organic tissue, though, and the key 
does not trip the mechanism. Instead, the symbiotic key stimulates a reflex within the 
creature-lock to clench or unclench its clawed clasp. When purchased, the lock comes 
with the symbiotic key, also made from hard, organic tissue. (The key is not alive, but 
rather an organic product.) This lock can be picked. 

Lock, Soft Key (Creature, 1 HD, AC 6): This is a special lock, resembling no other on 
Athas. It has a clawed clasp, but there is no key hole, or at least not a conventional one. 


85 


The main body of this lock appears to be a simple pod with the ability to chemically 
decompose organic molecules and "read" them, identifying patterns unique to each liv 
ing creature. The only way to cause the lock to open or close is to place specifically 
designed living tissue against the pod, allowing the chemicals within the pod's outer lay 
ers to read the tissue's organic signature. A soft-key lock can be tailored so that the 
required tissue is the flesh of a specific individual. Thus, the lock can only be opened or 
locked only by the touch of a particular person. The key could also be another specific 
shaped creation, such as a warstaff, or a coolcloak, or a special living key can be made 
to fit the lock. There is no way to pick this lock. 

Lockpick (Creature, 4 hp AC 6): This creature is made of malleable tissue that can be 
inserted into a hard key lock. It adapts and attempts to match the shape of the key 
required to open the lock, giving lock pickers a +10 bonus to their chance to pick a lock. 
Malleable Tool (Creature, 4 hp, AC 4): Similar to a lockpick, this creature's tissue is mal 
leable, and can be shaped like putty. It can be worked, however, only with smooth, soft 
strokes. It is resistant to firm pressure and hard blows, making it a useful tool when 
shaped into the form of a blade, an ax, a pick, a crowbar, a small shovel, a hook, or any 
other necessary form. The tool has enough mass to be shaped into any of those tools, or 
virtually any other item weighing 10 pounds or less. 

Poison Nodule (Tissue, 2 hp, AC 10): This is a tiny (Vfe inch diameter) organic pod that 
produces and secretes a virulent toxin. Like clingbags, they have adhesive backs that 
allow them to be attached to other things. Commonly, they are placed on bladed 
weapons to coat them with the poisonous secretion. Poison nodules produce Class B 
poisons (Method: Injection, Onset: 2-12 minutes; Strength: 20/1-3). 

Scrubslug (Creature, 2 hp, AC 8): As its name suggests, this creature looks like a large, 
foot-long slug. It moves silently through a home or business place devouring dust, lint, 
dirt and other particle matter. It also absorbs spilled liquids, crumbs, and food messes. It 
converts these materials into a quick-drying waxy polish that is excreted in a slimy trail 
behind it. It is organically programmed to move methodically over floors and walls, leav 
ing behind spotless, shiny surfaces. Since they move slowly, large buildings are best 
served using a number of these creatures. 

Sensor (Creature, 4 hp, AC 8): This creature looks much like a pair of pods, 6 inches in 
diameter. The pods stick together with a sticky sap, but they can be pulled apart easily 
without harm to either. One is the sensor pod, and the other is the baffler. As long as the 
baffler is within 50 feet of the sensor, the sensor remains inert. If the baffler is removed, 
however, the sensor begins to constantly monitor that area for its return. As a conse 
quence, if anything larger than an insect enters the radius without the baffler, the sensor 
begins to emit an alarming screech until the baffler is brought back. 

The sensor is actually a motion detection alarm system. It can even observe invisible 
creatures moving through its radius, but not those that are ethereal or out-of-phase. 

While one is useful, a number of these can protect an entire complex. 

Shockwand (Tissue, 3 HD, AC 4): A shockwand is a rod of hardened tissue, 6 inches in 
length. The wand absorbs static electricity from its surroundings, storing it for later use. 
When one end is squeezed, the other releases an electrical charge. The shockwand was 
designed for use in the life-shaping process (where electrical stimulation is often neces 
sary to achieve the proper biochemical reaction state), but it can have other uses as well. 
As a weapon, it inflicts 1d4 points of electrical damage per touch. It is useful for prod 
ding along large herd beasts and for evil characters when interrogating prisoners. 
Slicksuit (Tissue, 2 HD, AC 4): This full body suit is crafted solely to fit halflings and half- 
ling-size humanoid-no other sizes exist. Its surface is very smooth and it secretes an 
oily, slick liquid that coats the entire suit. The effect of this is similar to the magical oil of 
slipperiness , making it impossible for the wearer to be grabbed, grasped, constricted, or 
hugged by an opponent. Bonds such as ropes, chains, and manacles can easily be 
slipped loose. It requires a great effort for the liquid to be generated by the suit, however, 
so once used, the effect lasts for only four hours before the tissue suit requires a full 24- 
hours to replenish its supply of oil. 

Stealthboots (Tissue, 3 HD, AC 6): These seemingly normal leather boots are grown in a 
way that reduces the amount of noise made by a wearer's footsteps. Thieves gain a +10% 
bonus to move silently (to a maximum of 99%), while nonthieves (or thieves with a move 
silently skill of less than 10%) who wear the boots have a base 20% chance to move 
without sound. The boots can be designed to fit any size humanoid up to a half-giant. 


86 



Storage Pod (Creature, 3 HD, AC 6): These creatures are egg-shaped, with dark shells 
covering their hides. They open by peeling down their outer skins to expose large, empty 
cavities. Up to 5 cubic feet of material can be placed inside one of these pods and then 
sealed within it. Either hard or soft keyed locks may be attached to keep the contents 
secure, but soft keys are preferred. 

Warmcloak (Creature, 2 HD, AC 8): Similar to a coolcloak, this thick wooly cloak main 
tains a high body temperature that keeps the wearer quite comfortable in cold weather. 
There is little call for this item, Athas being what it is even on the cliffs, but the shapers 
make a few of them for climbers who must deal with harsh night winds out on the open 
rock. Then too, tragic experience has taught the shapers that when an item ceases to be 
crafted, the knowledge of its making is soon lost. These cloaks can be altered to accom 
modate any humanoid creatures smaller than half-giants. 

Water Condenser (Creature, 2 HD, AC 8): This creature looks like a 3-foot diameter 
bowl. It extracts moisture from the air and stores up to 50 gallons of water in the bowl. 
The bowl can be covered by a flap of skin to prevent evaporation. It condenses water 
automatically and continuously until it senses that the bowl is full. 

Watersponge (Creature, 3 HD, AC 6): This creature can expand up to five times its nor 
mal size of 2 feet in diameter, absorbing and storing all water with which it comes in 
contact. Pressure forces it to expel the liquid on demand. 

Transport 

Price List 

Ber-ethern 
Dhev-sahr 
Gon-evauth 
Yihn-eflan 


The creatures in this classification are animal-based automatons. Some resemble natural 
beasts, but they obey their masters mindlessly-operating without fear or emotion, and 
500 without any inherent drives or instincts. Most of these shapes are 

350 windriding mounts, well-known to most, but available to only a select few. 

800 For more detailed descriptions and information, see the Monstrous Manual(tm) 

500 Appendix pages in the back of this book. 


87 


Ber-ethern (Creature, 3 HD, AC 6): Ber-ethern means breeze sprites, and these creatures 
are the smallest of the windriding mounts. They are insect-based flyers with room to 
carry only one halfling rider and 25 pounds of cargo. They can fly up to 75 miles per 
hour fully loaded. 

Dhev-sahr (Creature, 3 HD, AC 6): The dhev-sahr is the only land-based mount made by 
the rhul-thaun life-shapers. Its body is round with four long legs allowing it to move very 
quickly. Two halflings can ride comfortably on top. 

Gon-evauth (Creature, 4 HD, AC 6): This windrider mount is also called a soar whale 
and sometimes (usually by outsiders who see them from afar) an airship. A gon-evauth is 
huge and balloon-shaped, able to keep itself aloft in the winds of the cliffs by filling its 
large inner cavities with hot, moist air. Windriders ride either atop the floating beasts or 
in a gondola affixed underneath the beast that can carry up to eight halflings or one win 
drider and a ton of cargo. Fully loaded, a soar whale moves at a top speed of 30 miles 
per hour. 

Yihn-eflan (Creature, 3 HD, AC 6): Yihn-eflan are windriding mounts whose name means 
gust climber. Larger than a breeze sprite but smaller than a soar whale, the yihn-eflan is 
an avian creature with huge, oversized wings. One to three riders can ride safely on its 
back, or 200 pounds of cargo and a single rider. Fully loaded, a gust climber can reach 
speeds up to 50 miles per hour. 

Guardians 


The term guardian applies to any life-shaped creation designed to actively protect or aid 


Price list 

Climbdog 

80 

a rhul-thaun in combat. Thus, creatures to assist in stalking and hunting prey are 
included as well as those that watch over homes and villages. Like transport shapes, the 

Darkstrike 

60 

creatures in this classification are animal-based automatons. Some resemble natural 

Protector 

100 

beasts, but they obey their masters mindlessly, behaving fearlessly, emotionlessly, and 

Shieldswarm 

150 

without any instinctive drives. 

Watcher 

80 




88 



Each guardian creature is created with a set of instructions about those actions it 
should or shouldn't perform. Additionally, the climbdog, protector, and shieldswarm 
obey simple, verbal commands. 

For more detailed descriptions and information, see the Monstrous Manual Appendix 
pages in the back of this book. 

Climbdog (Creature, 2 HD, AC 8): This beast resembles a wolf with wide, grasping paws 
and extremely flexible legs, to allow them to climb even sheer, rocky slopes. They 
accompany climbers, providing them with protection and aiding them with keen senses 
of smell, hearing, and eyesight. These senses are all twice as good as the average half- 
ling's. In times of danger or combat, they sacrifice themselves without hesitation to pro 
tect their masters. 

Darkstrike (Creature, 1 HD, AC 8, #At 1, Dmg 1d4 [bite]): These guardian creatures are 
attached to walls, doors, or other surfaces, with an adhesive like that of a clingbag. If 
possible, a darkstrike blends into the shadows. Usually, they are placed within nooks, 
alcoves, or around corners so that they can hide, waiting to pounce. When preselected 
conditions are met, this snake-based creature strikes at any and every available target 
with a fearsome bite. The darkstrike has the ability to sense motion even in the dark (with 
sonar similar to a bat's), so conditions are usually based on movement. Conditions 
include the detection of movement based on the amount of light (day or night), the num 
ber of figures passing by the creature, the size, race, or species of the figures passing by, 
or any similar criterion. 

Protector (Creature, 1 HD, AC 8, #At 1, Dmg 1d6 [bite]): This creature is essentially a 
guard dog, although it actually appears more feline. It can be instructed to recognize 
intruders and attack. The protector can flawlessly discriminate between those it is to pro 
tect and those that present an obvious danger. 

Shieldswarm (Creature, Vfe hp, AC 8, #At 1, Dmg 1d2 [bite]): These insectoid creations are 
6 inches long and can fly up to 30 miles per hour. A swarm consists of 50 to 100 of 
these creatures, individually called shieldbugs. They accompany windriders on their 
mounts (usually resting on the windriding mount until needed), flying up and around 
their master screening out intruders and attacks. Each can detect a light ranged attack 
and the swarm as a whole can obscure the rider. They can also be commanded to swarm 
and harass the rider's foes in battle. 

Watcher (Creature 4 hp, AC 8): A watcher is a reptilian creature with large, bulbous eyes 
possessed of virtually 360 degree vision. If the watcher observes a specific sight prese 
lected by its master, it lets out a loud keening sound. 

Rhulisti Artifacts 


Price List 


Eyehand 

300 

Eyestalk 

350 

Life Leech Sword 

500 

Lightning Generator 

1,000 

Mimicskin 

900 

Overmind 

10,000 

Psi-cloak 

1,200 

Recorder 

600 

Senselink 

850 

Womb 

50,000 


Also called special creations, these are shapes that can no longer be produced, yet one 
or more of them do exist. Most of these were made by the rhulisti, who knew secrets that 
enabled their shapes to live much longer than those produced by modern life-shapers. 
Note that the prices presented below do not take into consideration such factors as rarity 
or cultural significance. 

Dark Cloak (Creature, 2 HD, AC 5): These shapes are the result of an accident, and, 
unknown even to the life-shapers who created them, they have acquired psionic powers 
similar to wild talents. A dark cloak is really a psicloak, a living wrap that gives its wearer 
psionic protection. It offers a physical and a mental AC of 5. 

Eyehand (Tissue, Graft; 1d4 hp, AC 8): An eyehand is a strange graft that can be placed 
on the palm of a humanoid's hand. It resembles a flattened eye and feeds visual informa 
tion through the nerves in the host's arm as if it were a normal eye. When the eyehand is 
used, the wearer's normal eyes should be closed to prevent sensory overload and disori 
entation. The eye has a thick eyelid that closes when the hand is used so that the eye is 
protected. The eyehand is useful for looking backward, peering around corners, and simi 
lar situations. 

Eyestalk (Tissue, Graft; 1d4 hp, AC 8): This graft can only be used if the host has an avail 
able empty eye socket. The graft is placed within the socket and is indistinguishable from 
a normal, natural eye 75% of the time. It operates as a normal eye, but has the added fea 
ture of being mounted on an extendable, prehensile eyestalk measuring 1-foot in length. 


89 


The eyestalk is not visible until it is used. The stalk allows the eye to move up and around 
the host's head, peering around corners, behind the user, and into small openings. 
Life-Leech Sword (Creature, 1d4+4 HD, AC 4): This halfling short sword rapidly absorbs 
nutrients and water from its victim. The draining effect is reflected in the target's loss of 
1 dl 2 points of damage. The first strike of a life-leech sword injects a mild sedative 
around the wound. The sedative reduces the effect of further attacks so that additional 
hits on the same target within a 24-hour period inflict only 1d6 damage. In addition, the 
sword inflicts normal damage with every hit. 

Lightning Generator (Creature, 2 HD, AC 8): This creature is a barrel-shaped pod 
approximately 4 feet tall and 2 feet wide. It generates and builds up static electricity 
within specialized organs, releasing the energy as a 6d6 lightning bolt cast by a 6th-level 
wizard. The lightning bolt is directed by an operator with a 3-foot long wand connected 
by a flexible cord to the generator. These tools are actually parts of the creature itself. 

One bolt can be fired every 15 minutes, but the generator only produces if left idle (that 
is, it cannot be jostled, damaged, carried, or otherwise disturbed). This makes a useful 
weapon for defense, but it cannot be carried into battle. If placed in the carriage of a 
soar whale, there is a 25% chance that even the slow, gentle movement of that creature 
prevents it from operating at any given time. 

Mimicskin (Creature 1d4 hp, AC 8): This is applied much in the same way as sheath 
armor. It provides no protection, however. Instead, it can obey the mental commands of 
the wearer and alter his outward appearance (making it one of the most sophisticated of 
all artifact-shapes.) The limits of this disguise are as an alter self spell. Simply put, the 
wearer can appear as any humanoid creature with 50% of his mass. The skin, however, 
can only make the wearer appear the same size or larger, never smaller. 

Overmind (Creature, 3 HD, AC 4): Only one of these creations is still known to exist. It is 
an artificial brain, designed only to hear, think, and speak. The overmind can be used to 
make decisions or evaluate probable outcomes. This creation is 8 feet high and just as 
wide, made of tissue resembling the gray matter of a humanoid brain. The lower portion 
of the creation has a normal, halfling size mouth placed next to a single ear. The over 
mind has no means of perception other than hearing (unless it is connected to another 
creature via a senselink-see below), so it must have information spoken to it, in as 
much detail as possible. The overmind can formulate decisions and make evaluations 
based on probability and logic, limited only by the extent of its knowledge (which is 
quite extensive). There is a base 75% chance that it gives the correct answer or best deci 
sion if given adequate data. 

Recorder (Creature, 1d4 hp, AC 8): This device resembles a cube, 5 inches to a side. In a 
manner unknown to even the most enlightened modern shaper, the cube is able to cap 
ture sounds and replay them any number of times. One recording of up to 10 minutes in 
length, can be stored for each cube face. There is only one known in existence today, 
and it is never used to store new sounds. It holds the Dal-erat, or the word of the people, 
a message from ancient times regarding the values of life spoken by an unknown life- 
shaper or high lord. 

Senselink (Tissue, 1d4 hp, AC 8): This strange organic cord is 3 feet in length. Each end 
has a small nodule that can be placed on the temple or forehead of any creature. 

Through the senselink, a user can view the memories of another creature. Any sight 
experienced by one can be viewed by the other, any sound encountered by one can be 
heard by the other. Thoughts, ideas, and opinions cannot be transmitted, only actual 
memories. Those with access to these rare devices often send out a trained animal or life 
shaped guardian to explore an area and, when the beast returns, use the senselink to 
experience exactly what the creature felt. A senselink could also be used to preserve an 
image of the past and pass it down through many generations. 

The Womb (Creature, 6 HD, AC 0): This singular creature is unlike any other life-shaped 
creation. It is truly ancient, its workings and creation completely unknown to even the 
most experienced life-shaper today. The womb's only use is the testing of potential life- 
shapers. The creature rests within and completely fills a 100-foot square chamber within 
the Sanctuary of Thamasku. 

At sometime during their indoctrination, young life-shaper trainees are literally dropped 
into the womb. They pass through long, intestinal tubes, through peristalsis, into strange 
organic chambers. What actually occurs within the creature is unknown because all 
memory of the experience is erased from the minds of those that emerge. Those accepted 


90 


by the womb are placed, unharmed, in a chamber below the womb. These individuals 
can go on to become life-shapers, for it is assumed that the forces of life have bonded 
with them and pervaded their beings. Those subjects rejected are deposited either dead 
or comatose. The comatose are nursed back to health and returned to their families to 
take up some other occupation, wearing their shame all their lives. 


Engines 


Price List 


Air Pump 

500 

Furnace 

650 

Motive Engine 

750 

Water Pump 

350 


An engine is a living organism life-shaped to move in a particular way or to generate 
energy. These creatures are usually large and complex, powering or driving operations 
with great energy. They each require 10 doses of cam-rahn each day because of the 
requirements of their massive size combined with the tremendous power they generate. 
Because of cost and upkeep considerations, these drivers are beyond the reach of the 
average citizen. 


Air Pump (Creature, 3 HD AC 4): This creature has a huge, expandable lung as well as a 
large, central organ that holds air. The creature uses two trunk-like appendages to draw 
in and exhale air. A single air pump can draw up to 30 cubic feet of air per round. The 
creature itself is a bulbous mass of flesh with a prehensile trunk on either end. Its body is 
10 feet across and each trunk is 6 feet long and 3 feet around. Sometimes branch tubing 
is installed in the exhalation trunks to direct the airflow to different locations. 

This creature is useful for circulating air in large structures, ridding enclosed spaces of 
befouled atmospheres, and providing underwater chambers with fresh oxygen (large 
pipes or tubes often connect one trunk with the surface if deep underwater). 

Furnace (Creature, 2 HD, AC 6): This globular creature is about 3 feet across. It generates 
an inordinate amount of heat-the equivalent of a several large, roaring campfires. 

Motive Engine (Creature, 2 HD, AC 6): This creature is made to drive or move simple 
machines like flour grinders, pulley systems, elevator platforms, and even gates. A motive 
engine looks like a large mass of muscle with one to four huge arms that pull, push, turn 
and manipulate large, simple objects. 

Water Pump (Living Creature 2 HD, AC 6): This creature has a huge, expandable lung as 
well as a large stomach organ that holds water. Two appendages shaped like trunks draw 
in and expel water. A single water pump can displace up to 10 gallons per round. Like 
the air pump, the creature is a bulbous mass of flesh with prehensile trunks on either 
end. The creature's body is 10 feet across and each trunk is 6 feet long. Sometimes tubing 
reeds are attached to the expulsion trunk to allow the water to travel greater distances. 


Grafts 


Price List 


Cosmetic Skin Graft 

25 

Glider Graft 

90 

Glowing Graft 

20 

Lens Grafts (pair) 

50 

Lightvisor 

75 

Swim Fins (four) 

50 

Touch Pads (six) 

40 


Grafts are life-shaped creations that physically bond themselves to other living creatures. 
They always provide some useful service and, in exchange, they gain sustenance from 
the body of the host, forming a symbiotic relationship. 

All grafts may be attached, removed, and reattached to the flesh of a living creature. 
When attached, the graft holds itself in place with a mild adhesive and inserts micro 
scopic filaments into the host through which it drains tiny amounts of water and nutri 
ents. After removal, the flesh of the host displays a redness and a slight rash, but no other 
lasting effects are evident. The rash fades after 24 hours. 

Unless otherwise noted, a graft requires its host to increase his food and water intake by 
10%. Failure to do so results in a loss of 1 hit point per day after the first three days of 
graft use. Short-time graft connections, for a few hours each day, result in no noticeable 
draining effects. 

Cosmetic Skin Graft (Tissue, 1d4 hp, AC 8): These grafts are minor and the drain upon 
hosts is negligible no matter how long they are worn. Most of them are designed as sym 
bols displaying the wearer's membership in an organization, such as the vher-elus. These 
are often called badge grafts, others are merely decorative. 

Glider Graft (Tissue, 2 HD, AC 8): Composed mostly of large, thin membranes, these 
grafts attach to their host's back and the backs of his arms. Most of the time, they are 
compactly withdrawn, curled up in the small of the host's back, looking like small back- 


91 


packs. When unfurled, the membranes spread between the host's back and arms, allow 
ing him to soar and glide through the air. The user must launch himself from a height of 
at least 30 feet, and can then glide up to 100 feet for every 10 feet of launch-height. 

Glow Graft (Tissue, 1d4 hp, AC 8): These grafts are similar to glow pods. They create 
light through bioluminescence and produce light to equivalent to that of a torch. 

Lens Graft (Tissue, 1d4 hp, AC 8): Appearing as tiny, clear, concave lenses, these tiny 
scraps of tissue attach directly to a host's eyes. They improve the host's vision, allowing 
him to see twice as far as normal while still viewing close objects as usual. A single graft 
is not enough to produce the effect-using one lens only results in blurred vision. A pair 
of lenses drains a host as would a single graft of another type. 

Lightvisor (Tissue, 1d4 hp, AC 8): This complex and sophisticated graft fits over the eyes 
of a host like a blindfold or a mask, although it can be pushed up onto the forehead 
when not in use. The visor resembles a hat brim. When the host looks through the red 
dish membranes covering the eye holes, the lightvisor allows him to see normally in situ 
ations where there is very little light. It is useless, however, in total darkness. 

Swim Fins Graft (Tissue, 1d4 hp, AC 8): These grafts attach themselves to a host's hands 
and feet. As the name suggests, they are swimming aides. Swim fin grafts can increase a 
user's speed and the amount of time he can swim without tiring by 50%. Each of the fins 
absorbs nutrients from the host, so wearing four can be draining. 

Touch Pads Graft (Tissue, 1d4 hp, AC 8): These grafts are tiny, circular pads that attach to 
the host's fingers and hands. They increase the host's sensitivity to touch. Searching for 
traps or picking locks is easier with these grafts, the chances for the success of such 
actions are increased by 10% (to a maximum of 99%). One is needed on each finger, 
thumb, and the palm to be effective, although six of these grafts only drains the host as 
much as one normal graft. 

Producers 


Price List 

Food Producers 
Bar-edum 
Don-eguth 
Chuhn-egil 
Vash-erat 


8 

5 per bulb 
10 
10 


Textile Producers 
Drun-sahn 9 

Fis-evar 10 

Ghov-erad 15 


Producers are shapes designed to create useful raw materials and finished commodities. 
They make food, fluids, medicines, textiles, and other goods. These creatures demand the 
most attention from tenders. Presented here are a few of the most common producers, 
although there are others that create even rarer products. 

Food Producers (Creatures, 1d4 hp, AC 8): Food producers come in many varieties. Bar- 
edum are soft-backed, turtle creatures that produce eggs. Don-eguth are small tree 
growths that sprout from bulbs and produce sweet, reddish fruit. Chuhn-egil give milk 
from their bulbous bodies and vash-erat sprout large amounts of tiny grains on their body 
that is then sheared and ground into flour. 

Textile Producers (Creatures, 1d4, AC 8): The shed skin of the snakelike drun-sahn can 
be cured into strong leather, while the slow-moving herd animals known as fis-evar grow 
long wool that is sheared and spun into fabric. The ghov-erad is a flat, nonmobile crea 
ture that secretes a thin film. The film hardens into the material used to make drycloaks. 


Building Materials 

Like all operations involving life-shaping, only life-shapers are able to construct organic 
structures for the halflings. This is one of the few shaping processes that the public ever 
gets to see. Nen, an organic stone-like material, is grown from a single sponge creature 
and shaped as it grows into its desired form. This process takes one to three weeks of 
constant attention on the part of a team of life-shapers. Once formed, the nen dies and 
the structure that remains never changes. 

Rahn-rath is a living building material grown in shaper laboratories and brought to con 
struction sites in pieces. Shaper skills then fit the pieces together and meld them into a 
single organism. Rahn-rath structural shapes can be altered, with the attention and care 
of at least one life-shaper and a skilled tender. Walls, doors, windows, even entire rooms 
can be moved or altered in just a few days. 


92 


Medicinal Applications 

Inherent within the art of life-shaping is a fairly detailed, albeit ritualized, knowledge of 
the processes of life and medicine. Rhul-thaun healers are able to use medicinal herbs 
and preparations to aid the wounded and sick. Besides these basic healing arts, life-shap 
ing has produced some cures and restoratives of its own. These applications work on 
both shaped and natural creatures. 

Bloodclot (Tissue 1 hp, AC 10): A bloodclot shape is small, 3 inches in diameter, a circu 
lar patch of flesh. When placed on a wound, it stops all bleeding, prevents further hit 
point loss, and restores 1 lost hit point. After 1 dl0 minutes the wound heals completely, 
leaving some of the bloodclot flesh enmeshing in the patient's own flesh. The excess skin 
tissue from the bloodclot flakes away, dead. 

Detoxifiers (Creatures, 1 hp, AC 10): These tiny creatures are suspended in a liquid that 
the patient consumes. These tiny, virtually microscopic organisms enter the patient's 
bloodstream and vital organs, isolating all toxic substances. In 2d4 rounds they com 
pletely neutralize all poisons. They do not repair damage already sustained, but they can 
prevent damage from occurring if taken in time. Once they have performed their func 
tion, they are flushed from the system and die. 

Healing Patch (Tissue, 1 hp, AC 8): More potent than bloodclots, which they resemble, 
these fleshy patches release healing chemicals and medicines into the systems of the 
creatures to which they are applied. The healing patches restore 1d8 points of damage. 
After this immediate use, they wither and die. 

Joiner (Tissue Graft, 1 hp, AC 8): A joiner is a sophisticated healing graft that facilitates the 
rejoining of severed limbs. It is a thin mass of tissue that is literally placed between a sev 
ered limb and the stump to which it was formerly connected. The joiner mends bone tissue, 
reconnects blood vessels and muscle tissue, and reestablishes nerve connections. For 2d6 
days after this operation, the patient cannot move at all. After this period there is a 75% 
chance that the joiner has successfully facilitated the reattachment of the limb to the body. 

At this point, the graft becomes part of the host, and no longer drains nutrients. If the part to 
be attached was not an original limb of the patient, the chance of success is only 50%. 
Preservation Fluid (Product): This organic soup preserves organic material from decay 
and decomposition. It may be used to preserve severed limbs so that they can be reat 
tached with a joiner. 

Tending the Shaped 

Taking care of shaped objects once they are fully mature is so important that the tenders' 
job is one of the most common occupations among the rhul-thaun. The tenders are the 
caretakers of life-shaped creations and most of the time tenders take care of the class of 
shapes known as producers. They usually specialize, taking care of a specific class of 
producer or other shaped creation. 

Nourishment and Rest 

All shaped, living creatures require nourishment, water, oxygen, and other substances for 
maintenance. The life-shapers bottle a nutrient solution called cam-rahn that supplies the 
shapes with food and water. Shaped creations require one dose of cam-rahn per Hit Die 
per day. Cam-rahn costs 1 ghav-egoth per dose. Nearly all of the creatures are equipped 
with the ability to inhale and exhale and provide themselves with oxygen (most breathe 
it in from the air. However, a few have gills that extract oxygen from water). Shaped liv 
ing creatures can exist for 1d4+1 days without nutritional supplements; shaped tissue 
creations survive but 1d2+1 days. 

All living shapes need rest at least equal to the amount of time of use, and no constant 
use may last longer than 24 hours. If a shaped engine works for eight hours, it must rest 
for eight. If it labored around the clock, it should rest for a full 24 hours. Violating this 
guideline results in the loss of 1d4 hit points from the overworked shape for every four 
hours of additional use without rest. 


Price List 


Bloodclot 

5 

Detoxifiers 

5 

Healing Patch 

15 

Joiner 

20 

Preservation Fluid 


(25 gallons) 

25 


95 


While not in use, creations of tissue are suspended in an organic, oxygenated solution 
called tor-rahn. When they are in use, tissue creations must be immersed in lor-rahn for 
at least 30 minutes every 24-hours. If they are not, there is a 20% cumulative chance that 
the shapes wither and die. Lor-rahn costs 1 ghav-egoth per gallon. 

Shapes that are living creatures outlive those that are simply masses of tissue. Treated well, 
a life-shaped creature lives for 3d4 years. Tissue creations' life-span is only 1d2 years. 
Organic products are not alive and continue to function until damaged or worn out. 

The Effects of Magic 

Because many of the shaped creations are actually living creatures, certain magical spells 
affect them in strange ways. Generally, a living creation can be an applicable target for 
any spell that affects living creatures. Life-shaped objects cannot be summoned like ani 
mals or monsters. Obviously, magic missiles, fireballs, lightning bolts, and similar 
destructive spells harm the creations as they would any other vulnerable target. Similarly, 
cloudkill, deathfog, death spell, maze, imprisonment, and temporal stasis can all affect 
the life-shaped as well. Some spells have special effects when cast upon the shaped. 
These are detailed below. 

Wizard Spells 

Animal growth: This spell functions exactly as plant growth. 

Animate dead: Dead shaped creations can be animated. As a rule, undead shaped crea 
tures are half as fast, effective, and strong as a living one. 

Charm monster: Since the shaped objects display qualities of both animals and plants, 
spells such as this have a 50% chance of working on them. If the spell succeeds, the 
caster has complete control of the shaped item for 1d6x10 days. The shaped creation 
cannot be used to harm the caster and it obeys his verbal commands. The object cannot 
defy its basic limitations (a weapon cannot animate and attack on its own). Nevertheless, 
it can temporarily alter its own shape to a limited degree-a clingbag can remain shut, a 
warstaff can bend, and so on. 

Charm person: This spell does not affect the life-shaped, although charm monster and 
charm plant may. 

Charm plants: This spell functions exactly like charm monster. 

Clone: Shaped creations can be cloned by use of this spell. There are no detrimental 
effects when two duplicate, life-shaped creations exist at the same time. 

Enchant an item: Shaped creations can be made magical, like any other item. 

Energy drain: This spell can slay any shaped creation. 

Forget: When cast upon a shaped creation, the target ceases functioning for 1d8 rounds. 
Grease: This spell, if cast directly upon a graft, causes it to slide off the host if the host 
fails to make a successful saving throw. 

Haste: Hasted shaped creations, like any living targets, move twice as fast as normal. 
Those without any sort of mobility or action are not affected. This spell would be of little 
use if cast upon a clingbag or a warstaff, but can be very useful when cast upon a flash- 
lance or a windriding mount. 

Hold monster: This has a 50% chance of working on a shaped creation. If effective, the 
creation cannot be used for the duration of the spell. 

Major creation: As minor creation. 

Minor creation: This spell can be used to create a shaped creation categorized as a prod 
uct of a living creature. This assumes that the caster is very familiar with shaped creations 
and, in particular, the shaped one to be created. 

Otto's irresistible dance: This spell affects shaped creatures, causing them to be useless 
for the duration of the spell. 

Plant growth: This spell has a 50% chance of working on a shaped creation. The effects 
of the size change vary from creation to creation, although this may not be a terribly use 
ful spell overall. 

Polymorph any object: As polymorph other, below. 

Polymorph other: The spell functions normally on the shaped. Casters with extensive 
knowledge of life-shaped creatures can even polymorph other creatures into specific life- 


54 


shaped creations. The caster must be familiar with the creation that the target is to 
become. The resultant shaped creature has all of the normal benefits and limitations. 
Polymorph self: As polymorph other, a caster can polymorph himself into a life-shaped 
creation. 

Power word, stun: This spell affects life-shaped creations normally. Stunned creations are 
unable to function. 

Ray of enfeeblement: This spell weakens shaped creations. If cast upon a weapon or a 
creation that can inflict damage, the creation suffers a -2 to attack rolls and -1 on each 
die of damage (to a minimum of 1 per die). Armor Class is reduced by 2. 

Reincarnation: This spell does not affect the shaped, living or dead. 

Repulsion: This spell affects shaped creations. 

Shape change: As polymorph self; above. 

Sleep: This spell affects one shaped creation, making it limp and useless for 1d6 rounds. 
Slow: As haste, only the shaped creation is slowed. 

Stone to flesh: The reverse of stone to flesh can affect the life-shaped and this spell can 
too, to restore petrified shaped objects. 

Stoneskin: This spell can be cast upon a life-shaped creation as any other target. 

Strength: When cast, this spell makes creations stronger. Weapons gain +1 to attack and 
damage rolls. Armor gains one step in Armor Class. 

Transmute water to dust: If cast upon shaped creations, which are so dependent upon 
water, the life-shaped creature dies. 

Vampiric touch: This spell affects shaped creations as it would any other creature. 


Priest Spells 

Animal growth: This spell functions exactly as plant growth. 

Animate dead: Dead shaped creations can be animated. Generally, undead shaped crea 
tures are half as fast, effective, and strong as a living one. 

Animate object: Shaped creatures can be affected by this spell. 

Anti-animal shell: This spell has a 50% chance to keep out shaped creations of any sort. 
Anti-plant shell: This spell has a 50% chance to keep out shaped creations of any sort. 
Charm person or mammal: This spell has a 50% chance of working on the shaped. 

Cure light wounds: Healing spells of all types work on the life-shaped normally, repairing 
any damage. 

Hold animal: This has a 50% chance of working on a shaped creation. If effective, the 
creation cannot be used for the duration of the spell. 

Hold plant: This has a 50% chance of working on a shaped creation. If effective, the cre 
ation cannot be used for the duration of the spell. 

Invisibility to animals: This spell has a 50% chance of working on life-shaped creations. If 
successful, the shaped do not recognize the presence of invisible targets. This applies 
only to shaped creations with sensory abilities like the sensor. 

Plant growth: This spell has a 50% chance of working on a shaped creation. The effects of 
the size change vary from creation to creation, although this may not be terribly useful. 
Raise dead: Dead shaped can be raised. This spell functions normally. 

Regenerate: This spell restores severed parts of life-shaped creations. Its reverse destroys 
shaped creations. 

Reincarnate: This spell does not affect the shaped, living or dead. 

Restoration: While this spell has no applicable use for the shaped, its reverse destroys 
them. 

Resurrection: Dead shaped can be raised. This spell functions normally. 

Speak with animals: It is impossible to speak to normal life-shaped creatures. The DM 
may rule that it is possible to speak with certain life-shaped "artifacts" that have intelli 
gence. 

Speak with plants: Speaking to normal life-shaped creatures is impossible. The DM may 
rule that it is possible to speak to certain life-shaped "artifacts" with intelligence. 

Speak with monsters: Speaking to normal life-shaped creatures is impossible. The DM 
may rule that it is possible to speak to certain life-shaped "artifacts" with intelligence. 
Transmute water to dust: If cast upon shaped creations, which are so dependent upon 
water, the life-shaped creature dies. 


95 



CHAPTER 6: 

Into the Swamp 


This adventure is for three to six characters of levels 4-6. Either rhul-thaun characters 
created using this sourcebook, or existing Dark Sun characters can be used to play. 

The Dungeon Master should read the entire adventure before beginning to play. Some 
manipulation of the events that bring the PCs into the scenario may be required, 
depending on the composition of the player character party. 

Background 

Sahl-oren is an explorer who has traveled into the swamp at the base of the Jagged 
Cliffs, even into the Thri-Kreen Empire. Though the number of adventurers who attempt 
these feats is not small, the number of those who return to tell their tales is. 

Rumors passing through certain circles claim that Sahl-oren recently discovered a 
secret on his journeys. A secret so incredible, so valuable, that it could rock rhul-thaun 
society to its core. No one is exactly sure what he found, but rumors include: 

• The mummified remains of High Lord Rhan Thes-onel. 

• A life-shaped artifact of greater power than any ever seen. 

• The source of Rajaat's Curse. 

• Plans regarding the largest Thri-Kreen invasion of the Cliffs yet attempted. 

Sahl-oren's Secret 

What Sahl-oren actually found is a magical item that destroys life-shaped creations. He 
and a group of companions discovered the device in the swamp at the base of the cliffs, 
but they were unable to retrieve it. His fellow explorers died on the journey. 

Rajaat created this potent artifact when he realized that, despite his best intentions to 
the contrary, he may have to fight the rhul-thaun at some point. Rather than simply 
destroying them, he fashioned a device using his newly discovered magical abilities, 
which would take away their greatest assets, their life-shaped creations. 

The device, called little death, was never used. Sahl-oren learned of little death as he 
explored the ancient citadel built by Rajaat in the swamp. The explorer was unable to 


96 


get past the traps and magical protections defending it, however. He returned to the 
cliffs and was apprehended by members of the Chahn when he let his secrets slip. Now 
his captors seek to force Sahl-oren to lead them to the device. 

Getting the Heroes Involved 

One of the trickiest aspects of an adventure is constructing a plausible introduction that 
brings the heroes into the story. Getting the Player Characters involved in this adventure 
depends on whether the characters are outsiders or rhul-thaun themselves. 

Rhul-thaun Characters 

A PC group composed entirely of rhul-thaun halflings, such as a climbing group or a 
group of explorers, might hear the rumors and attempt to investigate on their own. 
Alternatively, a wealthy or influential individual could hire them, someone with a stake 
in Sahl-oren's discovery. 

Another possibility is that the heroes could be searching for Sahl-oren himself rather 
than his secrets. 

Outsiders 

If the adventurers are Athasians from beyond the Jagged Cliffs, the DM has a good deal 
more work in store. Player Characters from the Tyr Region must be introduced to rhul- 
thaun culture before they can be used in this adventure. 

There are two ways to approach the task of presenting the rhul-thaun to the heroes. 
The first is to have them to suddenly and surprisingly show themselves to the isolated 
halflings. With the rift opened by the recent earthquake, people from the Tyr region are 
sure to find the rhul-thaun one way or another. 

Most of the halflings react with hesitant friendship toward the newcomers while oth 
ers are unable to hide their distrust, speaking against the outsiders and wishing to hide 
their culture's secrets from them. 

Another method of integrating the heroes into this new society is through subterfuge 
and trickery. Various spells, disguises, and magical items can be used to make the 
heroes appear to be halflings or at least of races with which the rhul-thaun are familiar 
(such as pterrans-whom, of course, they hate). 

A major motivation for outsiders to find and deal with the halflings of the Jagged Cliffs 
is that the rhul-thaun are privy to knowledge that the outsiders and the heroes are not. 
Possible areas of information include details about the thri-kreen empire, Rajaat, and 
the ancient history of the world. In these situations, the DM should make it appear that 
Sahl-oren's secret deals with the information that the heroes seek. 

The Set Up 

For the purposes of this adventure, it is assumed that the PCs are rhul-thaun in 
Thamasku, hired by an individual to find Sahl-oren and his secrets. Only a small 
amount of changes need be made should either of these facts prove to be untrue. 

Cohg-agon is a wealthy merchant who is an information broker besides selling more 
obvious goods. 

She bases her operations in Thamasku. The party hears that she is interested in hiring 
some adventurers to perform a task for her. Upon inquiring, one of her assistants gives 
the heroes a place and time to meet Cohg-oren. They are asked to meet her at The 
Mirrored Host, an upscale safehome in the North Quarter. Cohg-agon pays for drinks 
and even dinner if her prospective employees so desire. After a bit of small talk, the 
merchant settles in and tells the heroes the following tale. 


As individuals of capable means and clever minds, you have probably already 
heard the rumors regarding a gentleman by the name of Sahl-oren. This fellow seems 
to have stumbled upon something of great value-a secret that may be priceless. 


97 




At this point, the heroes will probably interject something if they have heard the 
rumors. Cohg-agon listens to them politely, feigning interest, and then continues. 


His secret is something I desire to share. I know that obtaining it will be difficult, so I 
have contacted the best and most capable adventurers available-you. Are you interested? 


The heroes will most likely give their opinions and request more information. Though 
she does not know the nature of the secret, she has heard all of the above-mentioned 
rumors. Any secret along those lines is definitely worth knowing and worth selling to 
the right people. She will pay each character 500 ghav-egoths for the mission, and she 
will give the group a 20% cut on any profit she makes from the information if they 
agree to give her exclusive rights to the secret (this cut could be as high as 1,000 ghav- 
egoths). This means that they can reveal their findings only to her. If asked about her 
ability to enforce the agreement, she merely states "you don't want to press that issue, 
let me assure you. I am not someone you would wish to cross." If the heroes have any 
contacts in the underworld, they are informed that it is common knowledge that Cohg- 
agon uses efficient and deadly hired thugs to enforce her will. There is even a 15% 
chance that they learn that she has connections with the life-shapers. 

If the heroes accept, she will give them the following details. 


Sahl-oren was last seen in the Village of Glerran three days ago. He has since com 
pletely disappeared. There are a few knowledgeable people who may give you some idea 
of his current whereabouts. I will give you their names and locations, as well as trans 
portation to Glerran, but after that you are on your own. I will pay you upon your return. 


The names that she provides are as follows: 

* Lech-ohar, a tender in the village 

* Tehl-atuil, a painter in the village 

* Zohr-ovios, the barkeeper at the Rouster's safehome 

Cohg-agon (haf/TIO): AC 9 (Dexterity bonus); MV 6; hp 39; THAC0 16; #AT 1; Dmg 1d6 
(quickstrike); SA x4 backstab, poison; SZ S (2'11 "); ML Average (10); AL N; XP 2,000. 

S 11, D 15, C 10, I 15, W 17, Ch 13. 

Personality: flattering, clever 

Special Equipment: clingbag, quickstrike with poison nodule, touch pad grafts 
Thief Abilities: PP 80, OL 67, F/RT 65, MS 78, HS 63, DN 60, CW 95, RL 0 

Cohg-agon is a merchant deep in the pockets of the life shapers. She is a dealer in infor 
mation as well as life-shaped creations. Although she is interested in Sahl-oren's secret 
for herself, ultimately it is to her shaper masters that she must provide the information. 

Cohg-agon is middle-aged, but of course that is impossible to tell from her outward 
appearance since she is a halfling. Slightly overweight, she maintains an impeccably 
groomed appearance for business dealings. She crops her hair very short and displays a 
solitary flair in the red cosmetic graft surrounding her left eye. 

On the Trail 

The transport Cohg-agon provides is a soar whale guided by a windrider named Trav- 
osald (ham/F4/T5/NG). Although the windrider leaves from a high tower mooring in 
Thamasku, he wishes to make a short stop in Sol-fehn (the journey takes about 75 min 
utes). It is during this short stop to pick up some needed supplies (including cam-rahn to 
feed his mount), that the PCs have their first encounter. 

A Brief Stop 

Trav-osald tells the group that they can go where they will in the tiny village, but please 
meet him back at his tethered mount after one hour. It does not matter what the heroes 
do-after 10 minutes, have each player make an Intelligence check at -3. Anyone who 
is successful will notice that they are being watched from a nearby tower. If the heroes 
attempt to investigate, their secret observer will try to flee if he notices them approach- 


98 







.Stairway to 
Sleeping 
Rooms 


Kouster's 

Safehome 


] Square = } Feet 


Stairway 


Main Entrance 


ing. If unable to flee, he uses clerical spells to defend himself and elude capture. 

Ruv-odesh (ham/C7 [water]): AC 1 (shell armor and shield); MV 6; hp 42; THACO 16; 
#AT 1; Dmg 1d8 (hurling titan); SA Summon 7 cubic feet of water; SZ S (3'3"); ML 
Average (9); AL N; XP 975. 

S 16, D 12, C 14, I 10, W 17, Ch 8. 

Personality: nervous, contemptuous 

Special Equipment: shell armor, hurling titan, coolcloak 

Spells (5/5/3/1): 1st- command, create water, cure light wounds, cause fear, sanctu 
ary; 2nd- augury, hold person (x2), know alignment, spiritual hammer; 3rd- feign 
death, summon insects, water walk; 4th - giant insect 

Ruv-odesh is a minor priest of water and a secret member of the Chahn. He is thin, tall 
(for a halfling) and very ugly. The Chahn sent word that the life-shapers had directed 
agents to Sol-fehn to search for Sahl-oren and that he was to watch for them. They also 
provided the PC's physical descriptions, given to them by spies in Thamasku. 

If pressured or threatened with physical harm, Ruv-odesh tells the heroes everything 
he knows. He even gives them a minor rundown on the Chahn if they are unfamiliar 
with the organization. If this occurs, the characters know that the Chahn is somehow 
involved and is aware of their activities. They may also discover that there is apparently 
a connection between their employer and the life-shapers. 

Glerran 

The flight to Glerran only takes about an hour and consists almost entirely of a single, 
slow, vertical descent. The heroes are dropped off and left on their own. Their investiga 
tion most likely begins with the contacts provided by Cohg-agon. 

Lech-ohar (ham/TO/LN). This elderly man is a tender, caring for a "flock" of thag-erims. 
These life-shaped creatures are slug-based beasts that produce nodules containing an 
organic curative for many infections. Lech-ohar dabbles in the healing arts as well, 
occasionally seeing patients and helping with the odd cold, scrape, or bruise. Most peo 
ple think very highly of him. 


99 












Lech-ohar is also an old friend of Cohg-agon, having worked for her father as a mer 
chant's assistant long ago. He passes information along to her when he can, and if the 
heroes introduce themselves as acquaintances of Cohg-agon, the old man will tell them 
what they want to know. 


Sahl-oren's in a heap-a trouble. The Chahn is after his secret. I never did hear what 
'twas he found, but it's big enough to git their notice. I heard they was gonna nab him 
and force him to take them to what e'er he found. 


Lech-ohar doesn't know anything else, and doesn't remember where he heard his 
information. 

Tehl-atuil (haf/T3/CN). This woman is a painter in the village. Tehl-atuil is a loner, but 
very observant. She knows Cohg-agon and occasionally sends her information-for a 
price. If the adventurers give her at least 5 ghav-egoths (or the equivalent), she tells them 
the following. 


I saw the explorer named Sahl-oren and a few companions leave Glerran many 
days ago. They were on an expedition down to the swamp at the base of the cliffs, 
looking for some mysterious relic. Something to do with Rajaat's Curse. 


She then shows them the quick sketches she drew of the explorers as they prepared to 
leave. Astute characters notice that she has literally hundreds of sketches and paintings 
of events in Glerran, keeping a visual record of virtually all that transpires in the village. 

Tehl-atuil has no knowledge of what happened to Sahl-oren on his expedition or 
when he returned to Glerran. 

Zohr-ovios (ham/F3/N). To find this man, the heroes need to go to the safehome known 
as Rouster's This is a rough place, full of criminals and ruffians. There are 22 patrons at 
the safehome when the PCs visit. Zohr-ovios runs the bar and serves drinks. 

If questioned, the barkeep is suspicious and cagey. Nothing can loosen his tongue, 
not even money. The Chahn has already spoken to him, threatening him with his life if 
he talks to the heroes. 

After the characters have spoken to Zohr-ovios for a few minutes, four Chahn agents 
attack them. 

Chahn warriors (ham/F4 [4]): AC 6 (hide armor and shield); MV 6; hp 21, 23, 24, 

27; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 1d6 (short sword); SZ S (3' tall); ML Steady (12); Int Avg 

(10); AL NE; XP 270. 

Special Equipment: one Chahn warrior has a grappler, another has a sleep spore pod. 

On the first round of the attack (check for surprise at -2), two warriors come in through 
the main entrance, while two more Chahn rush in through the back door. One throws his 
sleep spore pod into the crowd to create confusion and detain the throng. Another uses a 
grappler on a PC while the rest advance to melee. Their orders are to kill the heroes. 

If things go against them, or if they fail a morale check, the Chahn attempt to flee. 

They will not surrender and if captured provide no information other than that they 
were sent to kill the characters. If, however, the heroes are hard pressed, some (1d8) of 
the safehome patrons can move in to help. Treat the patrons as 1 st-level warriors. 

If the adventurers have defeated the Chahn agents and prevented a great deal of harm 
to the safehome or its patrons, Zohr-ovios is so grateful that he answers all of the 
heroes' questions. 


The Chahn captured Sahl-oren after they heard about his secret find. I don't know exactly 
what he found, but I heard him say himself, as he sat at this very bar, that he and some 
companions found some sort of citadel in the swamp. Apparently, they followed a climber 
path down to a camp at the base of the cliffs, almost straight down from here. From there, 
they blazed a trail of their own, following directions they got from a windrider who spotted 
the place from the air. The trail, he said, was clearly marked to make it easy to follow. 


1 00 








He doesn't know where the Chahn is holding Sahl-oren, but he suspects that they 
have already left for the swamp with him leading the way under duress-a fact he won't 
reveal unless asked. Zohr-ovios knows little else except that the windrider's name was 
Kan-achiv. He won't reveal this without being asked, either. 

The Chahn has indeed already taken Sahl-oren down into the swamp. The heroes find 
it impossible to root out the radical group's secret base of operations here in Glerran. 
Their only option is to attempt to follow the explorer's path down, into the swamp. 

Downward 

There are essentially two ways to get to the swamp, unless the heroes can use a magical 
device or spell, such as fly or teleport. 

The first is to climb down, like Sahl-oren and company did originally. If one or more 
of the characters are rhul-thaun climbers, this is easy to accomplish. They can immedi 
ately find the climbing path that the bartender mentioned. If the heroes are not 
climbers, their best course of action is to hire a climber or a group of climbers to help 
them. The DM should stress that without professional assistance, even characters with 
the mountaineering proficiency face incredible risks attempting the mile long trek 
downward. Climbing down takes two full days with an appropriate amount of time for 
rest and sleep in between on the ledges. If all of the characters are mountaineers or pro 
fessional climbers, this cuts the time by a half day. 

The second method of going down is to hire a windrider to ferry them to the swamp. 
This gets the PCs to the swamp much faster (it takes about an hour), but it is more 
expensive and the windrider may not know the climbing paths well enough to know 
where to put the characters down. 

If, however, the player characters know the name of the windrider who originally gave 
Sahl-oren the information, they can pretty easily track her down by asking around. 

Kan-achiv is a skilled and experienced windrider. She happily tells the characters all 
about the day that her mount took ill and she almost crashed into the swamp. On that 
day, she was forced to fly very close to ground level, where the mist is always thickest. 
As she nursed her ber-ethern back to the cliffs, she spotted a floating fortress of stone 



101 








between the trees and brambles of the swamp. She can provide them with rough direc 
tions (see Map #4), but under no circumstances will she go there. She has a great fear of 
Rajaat's Curse and the horrible monsters that live in the swamp. 

In fact, the heroes are not able to find any windrider in Glerran willing to take them 
that far into the swamp. Setting them down at the edge is their only option. 

The Base of the Cliffs 

Whether they climb or fly, the heroes end up at the base of the cliffs. If they climbed 
down, it was a harrowing but relatively uneventful trip. With experienced climbers, a 
climbing path, and the right equipment, falling is almost impossible. The DM should 
require climbing rolls only if the heroes set out on their own, without proper knowledge 
or equipment. Stress to the PCs that they are being foolish, but if they persist, allow 
them to fall. Due to poor visibility, slippery conditions, and their inability to follow the 
marked path, characters who do not know what they are doing make climbing rolls 
with a penalty of -50%, the check is required every hour of the 40-hour climb. 

Flying down is less dangerous, but the environmental changes become more obvious. 
The heat and humidity increase as the heroes descend and the mist thickens until visi 
bility is reduced to a mere 1d4 feet at any given time. 

The Climber's Camp 

This small camp rests upon a ledge only 100 feet above the bottom of the cliffs. This is 
an abandoned camp with a few hide tents, a fire pit, and a few other signs of former 
habitation. From this shelf, the dark swamp can be surveyed just under the canopy of 
mist, allowing for brief moments, visibility of up to a mile during the day. 

A hive of wild kank, with adapted claws for climbing, has recently taken up resi 
dence nearby (just below and to the north, at the edge of the swamp). Any living crea 
ture pausing near the nest, looking for food, for the colony, or its queen are attacked by 
3d6 kank soldiers. Even if the kank are killed, another wave of the insects will plague 
the heroes if they remain on the ledge. The hive has a total of 500 kank. 



102 




Wild Kank (3d6): AC 5; MV 15; hp 12 each; THACO 17; #AT 1 or 2; Dmg 1d6 or 
1d6/1d8; SA bite carries poison that causes paralysis for 2d12 rounds, attack rolls of 
15 or over are grapples that inflict 1d6 additional damage; SZ L (8' long); ML 
Average (10); Int Animal (1); AL N; XP 175. 

Note: Grappled foes must make a Strength check at -2 to be freed, or companions 
can inflict 5 hp damage on the pincers. 

The Swamp 

Once in the swamp itself, the characters find that the mist is actually thinner in most 
areas. This is because it mainly rises in streams from the occasional steaming pools 
found in the swamp, combining immediately above the swamp to form a wall of mist. 
Most places within the swamp are dark and foggy (very little sunlight penetrates the 
misty barrier this far), but visibility stretches to 2d10+10 feet during the day (dropping to 
0 at night) or in bright light, such as that from torches. 

Except for the infrequent island, the level of water in the swamp is at least a foot, with 
frequent hidden holes and pits of quicksand. 

Green and black trees with which the PCs are unfamiliar grow in abundance, string 
ing mossy vines back and forth creating a thick, webbed canopy over the soft earth 
beneath them. Everything constantly drips with a slimy wetness. 

At most times, the swamp seems to be dramatically quiet. Except for the sporadic 
buzz of insects and bubble of boiling pools, the swamp is silent. Many denizens of the 
swamp move silently, ambushing their prey in sudden attacks out of the silence and 
darkness, making them even more terrifying. 

Swamp Encounters 

The DM should note that many of the possible monsters the heroes may encounter may 
be too powerful to defeat. The deeper they travel into the swamp, the worse the encoun 
ters and magical effects become. Water drakes, nightmare beasts, cistern fiends, and 
other fearsome creatures are found in large numbers, along with beasts corrupted by the 
magic of the swamp. 

There is a 1 in 6 chance of a random encounter. Check every four hours. 

Random Encounters Table 

dl 00 

01-20 Quicksand 

21-30 Steam burst 

31-38 Giant Crocodile 

39-45 Frog, giant 

45-50 Frog, poisonous 

51-55 Strangling vines 

56-60 Bog Wader 

61-65 Hydra 

66-70 Shambling Mound 
71-75 Behir 

76-80 Leech, giant 

81-85 Bvanen 

86-88 Will o'Wisp 

89-93 Reggelid 

94-97 Monstrosity 

98-00 Rajaat's Curse 

Quicksand encounters. It takes 1d4+1 rounds to sink in the quicksand. Assistance 
from another character or something to grab (such as an available branch from a 
nearby tree or a hanging vine) are ways to escape. Pulling oneself or another out 
requires a Strength check. Every round that a character struggles or attempts to 
swim, decrease by one round the amount of time remaining before being com 
pletely submerged. 



103 




The Swamp 


0 } K? 

I ¦ 1 

Mi|c4 



Steam bursts occur when a fissure of unnaturally heated gas opens, spouting a blast 
of superheated steam. In this situation, 1d4 characters are in the radius of the burst 
and take 3d6 points of damage. Characters may make a saving throw vs. breath 
weapon to reduce the damage by half. 

Giant Crocodile: AC 4; MV 6 Sw 12; hp 34; THACO 13; #AT 2; Dmg 3d6/2d10; SA 
-2 to foes' surprise rolls; SZ H (21-30' long); ML Steady (11); Int Animal (1); AL N; 
XP 1,400. 

Frog, giant (5d8): AC 7; MV 3, Sw 9; hp 8 each; THACO 16; #AT 1; Dmg 1d6; SA -3 
to foes' surprise rolls, tongue grapples and frog swallows whole on an attack roll of 
20; SZ M (5' long); ML Average (8); Int Non (0); AL N; XP 175. 

Note: Tongue has a 15' range and is +4 on attack rolls. Those struck are pulled into 
its mouth in 1 or 2 rounds and bit for maximum damage. Those swallowed whole 
die in 3 rounds. 

Frog, poisonous (2d6): AC 8; MV 3, Sw 9; hp 4 each; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg 1; SA 
Poisonous bite and touch with +4 on saves; SZ T (6" long); ML Unsteady (6); Int 
Non (0); AL N; XP 65. 

Strangling Vines: AC 5; MV Nil; hp 26; THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 1 dl0; SA Strangle 
foes for 1d6 damage per round, -1 to foes' surprise rolls; SZ H (25' long); ML Nil; 

Int Non (0); AL N; XP 650. 

Note: Strangled foes can make a Strength check at -5 to break free. 

Bog Wader (1d2): AC 4+3; MV 3, Sw 15; hp 25; THACO 15; #AT 5; Dmg 
1d3/1d3/1d3/1d3/1d4; SA Impale foes for 2d4 damage; SZ M (6' tall); ML Steady 
(11); Int Low (6); AL CE; XP 420. 

Note: Impaled creatures are held under the mud (and may drown) until a bend bars 
roll is made. 

Hydra: AC 5; MV 9; hp 56; THACO 13; #AT 7; Dmg 1d8x7; SW Every 8 points of 
damage inflicted upon the hydra severs a head; SZ G (30' long); ML Average (9); Int 
Semi (4); AL N; XP 2,000. 

Shambling Mound: AC 0; MV 6; hp 50; THACO 11; #AT 2; Dmg 2d8/2d8; SA -3 to 
foes' surprise rolls, two successful hits entangle foes; SD Immune to blunt weapons 
and fire, half damage from edged or piercing weapons, half or no damage from cold, 
lighting adds 1 HD; SZ L (8' tall); ML Fanatic (18); Int Low (6); AL N; XP 7,000. 

Note: Entangled victims suffocate in 2d4 rounds unless bend bars roll is made or 
the shambler is killed. 

Behir: AC 4; MV 15; hp 66; THACO 9; #AT 2 or 7; Dmg 2d4/1d4+1 or 2d4/1d6 (x6); 
SA Breathe lightning bolt that inflicts 24 points of damage, swallows whole on an 
attack roll of 20; SD Immune to lightning and poison; SZ G (40' long); ML 
Champion (15); Int Low (6); AL NE; XP 7,000. 

Note: Foes swallowed whole die in 6 rounds, losing 1/6 of their hit point total each 
round. 

Leech, giant (4d4): AC 9; MV 3, Sw 3; hp 20 each; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 1d4; SA 
After successful attack, bite drains 4 points of damage per round; SW Salt will kill 
them; SZ M (5' long); ML Unsteady (7); Int Non (0); AL N; XP 270. 

Bvanen (6): AC 4; MV 6, Sw 12; hp 16 each; THACO 17; #AT 3; Dmg 
1d3/1d3/1d4+1; SA Ooze secreted hardens on foe, partially immobilizes until a 
bend bars roll is made; SD Immune to bleeding wounds, all wounds are reduced by 
1 point SZ M (5' tall); ML Avg (9); Int Very (11); AL NC; XP 420. 

Note: On round after being struck, foe cannot use body part struck (roll 1d8: 1 - 
head, 2-3-right arm, 4-5-left arm, 6-8-either leg) until a bend bars roll is made 
(either foe or companion). A hit to the head indicates that foe suffocates. 


104 






Psionics: Dis 2/Sci 3/Dev 10; PS 10; PSPs 40 
Att: EW, II, MT; Def: MB, MBk, TS 
Player's Option: #AT 1; MTHACO 16; MAC 4 

Psychometabolism: Sciences-animal affinity; Devotions-displacement, flesh 
armor, immovability 

Telepathy: Sciences-domination, mindlink; Devotions-attraction, contact (send 
thoughts), ego whip (sight link), id insinuation (inflict pain), mind thrust (synaptic 
static), phobia amplification 

Will o'wisp: AC -8; MV FI 18 (A); hp 50 each; THACO 11; #AT 1; Dmg 2d8; SD 
Immune to all spells except magic missile, protection from evil, and maze; SZ S (3'); 
ML Fanatic (17); Int Exceptional (15); AL CE; XP 3,000. 

Note: Damage inflicted by electrical discharge 

Reggelid (1d8+2): AC 7; MV 12; hp 18; THACO 17; #AT 1; Dmg 1d6 (staff); SA 
Spells; SW Life-shaped creations cause 1d6 damage by touch; SZ M (7' tall); ML 
Elite (13); Int Genius (17); AL NE; XP 175. 

Spells (2/1): 1st- magic missile, detect magic; 2nd- web. 

Monstrosity encounters are extremely dangerous, the sorcery inherent within the 
swamp has mutated these beasts. To create monstrosities, the DM should take a mon 
ster, one native only to Athas, and alter it. Alterations include extra arms, heads, eyes, 
mouths, or legs, additional tentacles, wings or other appendages, chitinous armor, 
breath weapons, and psionic powers. Usually, it should be obvious what the creature 
once was-in a few instances, the creature is so changed that telling its origin is 
impossible. In every case, the monstrosity should be more powerful and horrible than 
the original with additional HD, attacks, damage, powers, movement, and defenses. 
For a random determination of monstrosities, use the following tables. 

Monstrosity Table 


Base 

dIO 


Monster 

Giant, beasthead 

Aarakocra 

Psionocus 

Feylaar 

Thri-kreen 

Pterran 

Lirr 

Halfling 

Human 

Crodlu 


2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 


Innate Powers 

d12 


Table 

Power 

Invisibility 
Teleport 
Levitation 
Polymorph self 
Blink 

Charm person 
Flesh to stone 
Hold person 
Slow 

Energy drain 

Blindness 

Confusion 


2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 
11 
12 


105 


Modifications 
dl 00 
01-10 
11-20 
21-25 

26-30 

31-35 

36-40 

41-45 

46-55 

56-60 

61-63 

64-66 

67-70 

71-73 

74-78 

79-82 

83-86 

87-90 

91-93 

94-96 

97-99 

00 


T ABLE 

Modification 

Additional 1d4 limbs (and corresponding attacks 
Double normal size (and Hit Dice) 

Double head size (bite now inflicts double damage or 1d8 damage, 
whichever is more) 

Double size for 1d4 or all limbs (attacks yield double damage or 
1 dl 0 damage, whichever is more) 

Additional 1d4 eyes (cannot be surprised) 

Add 1d4 tentacles (with grapple attacks inflicting 1d8 damage each) 
Add wings 

Skin/hide thickness increases, lowering AC by 1d4 steps 

Replace 1d2 limbs with tentacles that inflict 2d6 damage 

Replace 1d2 hands/claws/paws/hooves with bladed appendages that 

inflict 2d8 damage 

Touch paralyzes foe for 2d10 rounds 

Disruptive touch inflicts additional 1 dl 0 points of damage 

Attacks become poisonous (save or die in 1d3 rounds) 

Casts spells as a 1d4+5 level mage 

Breathes fire for 3d10 damage and 100-foot range 

Breathes poison gas (save or die in 1d3 rounds) in a 30' diameter 

cloud 

Body covered in spines that increase all melee attack damage by 1d4 
Body is amorphous and can stretch up to five times its length 
Body is shrouded in flame inflicting 1d6 damage to all within 10 feet 
Roll on innate power table below: power can be used 1d4 times per 
day 

Roll on Innate Power Table below: power can be used at will once per 
round 



106 






Creatures created using these tables are bizarre, misshapen, incongruous beasts, but that 
is the desired goal. The monsters should look like they have been haphazardly altered. 

Rajaat's Curse encounters are direct confrontations with the twisted magic of the 
swamp and its effects. This foul sorcery can manifest itself in many ways. In its most 
basic form, it twists and mutates life, transforming normal plants into carnivorous 
ones, trees into shambling mounds, mud into evil elemental creatures, or player 
characters into evil monsters like sligs, t'chowb, belgoi, anakore, or something com 
pletely alien (if a saving throw vs. polymorph fails). 

Also, the sorcery can take on a more subtle tone, draining or adding magic to PCs 
or their equipment. The DM should come up with various random effects, always 
encompassing alteration, magic-changing and twisting living creatures. 

Mapped Dangers and Obstacles 

The map of the swamp shows a number of potential hazards and encounters. The 
streams are 10 to 50 feet wide but only 1 to 3 feet deep in most places, with smaller 
tributaries running through the marshy ground. Crossing these streams is not a problem 
most of the time, although leeches, hidden sharp rocks and sticks, and other deterrents 
are always present. At times, deep holes are discovered while trying to cross a stream (1 
in 8 chance per crossing), surprising characters as they fall into deep water. These holes 
are only an actual danger to overburdened characters or those who cannot swim. There 
is a 30% chance however, that a character loses an item that is not securely fastened. 

Steaming pools are more obvious dangers. These magically heated pools spew out 
steam and mist and reduce visibility in a 50-foot radius around them to 0. The heated 
steam causes 1d6 damage to all within 100 feet of the pool every 10 rounds, while 
immersion into the water itself inflicts 2d6 damage per round. 

At any steaming pool, there is a 1 in 20 chance for an encounter with 2d6 mudmen, 
the creatures spawned from the intense heat and supernatural forces of the swamp. 


107 



Mudman (2d6): AC 10; MV 3; hp 12 each; THACO 19; #AT 1; Dmg Special; SA 
throw mud to reduce foes' movement by 1 or throw body to lessen movement by 4, 
foes at 0 movement take 1d8 damage per round and die in 5 rounds from suffoca 
tion; SD +1 or better weapon to hit, immune to poison and mind affecting spells; SW 
dispel magic and dig act as fireballs , transmute mud to rock slays; SZ M; ML Fanatic 
(18); Int Low; AL CE; XP 120. 

Note: Foes are treated as AC 10. A mudman hitting foes with its entire body is con 
sidered slain. 

Following the Trail 

The heroes will need to follow Sahl-oren's trail to get to his secret find. Fortunately, the 
halfling explorer and his companions intentionally made the path easy to follow so that 
they could find their way back. Any character with the tracking proficiency will have no 
problem in following the track, and characters without the skill can make intelligence 
checks at -1 each day to keep to the course. 

The Bvanen's Everpresent Eye 

Bvanen camps are the temporary homes of 5d4 bvanen, with 1d6 domesticated mon 
sters such as giant frogs, giant leeches, crocodiles, and similar creatures. The bvanen are 
looking for more creatures to capture and train, and are not necessarily hostile to the 
heroes, although they are both wary and curious about them. 

Not very long after the heroes enter the swamp, allow each to make an Intelligence 
check. Those who are successful begin to feel that someone is watching them. Further 
Intelligence checks at -5 are required to notice that just at the edge of their visual range, 
1d6 bvanen are watching them warily. If the heroes do not approach or threaten the 
bvanen, the amphibians will leave them alone (but continue to watch them curiously). 
The characters notice that the Bvanen follow them all the way to their objective and 
even all the way back to the cliffs when they leave. There is a 30% chance that, if the 

Inverted Pyra mid 

GSi-dfi View) 



108 






























































heroes are hard pressed in any other encounter, the Bvanen actually help them. If the 
characters react in an aggressive manner during the initial encounter, the bvanen panic 
and may even react with violence against the party. 

The Inverted Pyramid 

Sahl-oren's path ends at the edge of a confluence of two thick, mossy streams. If the 
party arrives during the day, the adventurers see nothing out of the ordinary. The trail 
cannot be picked up again anywhere on either side of the streams. It seems that the 
path is a dead end. 

The water at this confluence is much deeper than it appears. The entire area is 50 
feet deep, and a pair of gigantic, rusty iron doors lies at the bottom of the confluence. 
The water is far too murky to see through, but divers can probably feel them. Each 
door is 250 feet wide and 500 feet long. There is no way of physically opening them, 
although magic (even a simple knock spell) can accomplish the task, forcing the 
ancient portals to slide open. If the doors open, an inverted stone pyramid, each of the 
four sides of its base over 400 feet long, rises from the shaft below the doors, thrusting 
up through the water to float 100 feet in the air. The shaft beneath the doors is empty, 
other than the pyramid, and filled with water down to its bottom, 500 feet below. 

At night, the doors magically open on their own, and the pyramid rises from the 
depths, dripping mosses and slimy water from its smooth stone surface. If the player 
characters arrive at the confluence at night, they see the inverted pyramid already 
hanging magically in the air. If they arrive by day but camp at the side of the conflu 
ence until dark, they will see it rise, apparently of its own volition. The next sunrise, 
the pyramid sinks down into the shaft and the doors close again. 

The Nature of the Pyramid 

This is a magical citadel, constructed by Rajaat himself. The Warbringer fashioned this 
place so that various sectors within it reflect the nature of one basic focus, or "school" 
of magic. The ancient pyramid was created as a magical storehouse, complete with 
traps and guardians, although Rajaat took almost everything out of it to arm his cham 
pions during the Cleansing Wars. Sahl-oren and his group entered it one night, how 
ever, and learned the location of at least one great treasure. 

The Reggelid Threat 

In addition to the chance for a random encounter with reggelids, the DM may wish to 
have these monsters also attempt to gain entrance to the inverted pyramid-the activity 
in the area has drawn them to it as well. Six of the spellusing creatures see the charac 
ters approach the pyramid from a nearby hiding place. They lie in wait, watching the 
PCs, letting them figure out how to get in. The reggelids then follow them into the pyra 
mid and attack them in the entry room or in Area 2. 

The reggelids are confident they can defeat the heroes and they neither hold back 
nor worry about retreat. While fighting, they concern themselves with those they per 
ceive to be true threats-spellcasters. While they do not ignore warriors and rogues, 
they concentrate their attacks on the spellusers first, hoping to take them out quickly. 

If given the time, the reggelid leader will cast the tongues spell on himself before 
engaging the player characters. While fighting, he tells the adventurers that he knows 
that this citadel is a storehouse for magic-one that the reggelids have been seeking a 
long time. He attempts to get any information concerning the place from the heroes 
while they fight, even using trickery if necessary. For example, he might say something 
about the pyramid that he knows is wrong to see if the heroes correct him. 

For five of the creatures, use the statistics given above. The DM may wish to modify 
their spell selections so that each individual has a few different spells. Additionally, one 
wields a broadsword and has an active shield spell. Another has an armor spell as well 
as strength. For their leader, use the stats presented here. Note that the 3rd-level spell, 
organic disruption, is found in the reggelid statistics in the back of the book. 


109 


Reggelid Leader: AC 6 (armor and stoneskin spells); MV 12; hp 45; THACO 13; #AT 
1; Dmg 1d6 (staff); SA Spells; SW Life-shaped creations cause 1d6 damage by 
touch; SZ M (7' tall); ML Elite (13); Int Genius (18); AL NE; XP 1,400. 

Special Equipment: Scroll of three spells: tongues, polymorph self, wall of ice. 

Spells (4/3/2/1): 1st- burning hands, charm person, grease, shield; 2nd- 
invisibility, levitation, Melf's acid arrow; 3rd- lightning bolt, organic disruption; 

4th- dimension door. 

The Chahn and the Prisoner 

The other external threat to the party is the Chahn, which is also attempting to find 
Sahl-oren's secret. The explorer is their prisoner, entwined in clingrope bonds. They are 
ahead of the heroes, but have encountered a number of threats in the swamp them 
selves (including the reggelids) and their numbers have been worn down. Sahl-oren 
has given them all the information he can, and they are now at a loss for what to do 
next. As with any group of Chahn, not all are evil or wanton killers. They should be 
encountered while exploring the pyramid, in areas 2, 4, 8, and 10. 

Chahn warriors (ham&haf, F4 [6]): AC 5 (half shell); MV 6; hp 27 each; THACO 17; 
#AT 1; Dmg 1d8 (armblade); SZ S (3' tall); ML Elite (14); Int Avg (10); AL CN; XP 270. 
Special Equipment: armblade, 50' clingrope, half shell armor, misc. climbing equipment 

Zas-athil, Chahn Leader (ham/F7/T7): AC 3 (hide armor and Dexterity bonus); MV 6; 
hp 43; THACO 14; #AT 1; Dmg 1d6+1 (spinethrower); SA x3 backstab; SZ S (2'10" 
tall); ML Champion (15); AL N; XP 975. 

S 15, D 17, C 12, I 13, W 12, Ch 11. 

Personality: Determined, hardheaded 

Special Equipment: hide armor, spinethrower, climbing gloves, chameleon cloak 
Thief Abilities: PP 55, OL 55, F/RT 55, MS 60, HS 70, DN 40, CW 95, RL 10. 

Zas-athil and her band of Chahn have been charged with taking Sahl-oren into the 
swamp and obtaining the strange object that he claims to have found. Zas-athil herself 
is not even sure that the thing exists, but she is willing to give anything to the cause. 

She is a sturdy, rugged woman with short brown hair, her face and features are heavily 
masked in red cosmetic graft adornments. 

Sahl-oren (ham/F6/T6): AC 9 (Dexterity bonus); MV 6; hp 41; THACO 15; #AT 1; 

Dmg 1d6 or 1 dl0 (flashlance); SA x3 backstab; SZ S (3' 1"); ML Champion (15); AL 
N; XP 650. 

S 14, D 15, C 15, I 13, W 9, Ch 12. 

Personality: Bold, confident, braggart 

Thief Abilities: PP 55, OL 50, F/RT 45, MS 80, HS 45, DN 20, CW 95, RL 0. 

Sahl-oren is currently at 14 hit points. He is tied with clingrope and has no equipment. 
He will be grateful for any assistance the PCs can give him. Nevertheless, he entertains 
no thoughts that anyone but he should get the little death he discovered. 

If the heroes are kind enough to give him some equipment, he gladly takes anything 
they can spare. He is proficient with flashlance (his weapon of choice) quickstrike, 
short sword, dagger, grappler, and armblade. 

Getting Inside 

The pyramid is proofed against all sorts of physical attacks. There is no way to cut, bore, 
smash, or dig into it, even if the heroes figure out a way to get up to it. 

There are only two ways to enter the pyramid. One is to use a magical means of 
entering such as teleport, or passwall. The other is to trigger the entrance spell stored on 
the bottom pinnacle. This spell is activated when anything moves directly beneath the 
point of the pinnacle, above the surface of the water. When this happens, a beam of 
golden energy, 10 feet in diameter, issues from the tip and engulfs whatever is within its 
field, drawing it up and into the pyramid in a single round. 


110 



Inverted Pyramid-Interior 

\ Scjuare - 10 Feet 


Area 1 


Area J 


Hitch 


•m* Door 
-w- Secret Door 
* Statue 

Stairv-at) t4p 
Iren Vault 
Curtain. 
Pillar 


111 























































































No matter how the heroes enter, they begin in Area 1. Even if they use a passwall 
spell on a different section of the pyramid, they still find themselves in Area 1. 

Map Key 

Area 1: Entry Chamber 

Because the powerful magical energies that surround and permeate the pyramid are 
focused here, this is the spot where all intruders first find themselves-no matter how 
they entered the structure. The room is round, with smooth stone walls polished to a 
sheen that belies their age. The room measures only 15 feet in diameter. A silver hatch 
is set into the center of the ceiling, but there is no apparent way to reach it. 

About the perimeter of the room, five shallow alcoves, each 1-foot high, 1-foot wide, 
and 3 inches deep are set into the wall 4 feet above the floor. Inlaid into each is a blue 
gem of remarkable size (2 inches across). Beneath one of the alcoves lies the black 
ened corpse of a halfling, still clutching a gem. Her life-shaped equipment is equally 
dead and blackened-she was one of Sahl-oren's companions. 

A powerful spell that inflicts 6d6 points of electrical damage on anyone touching it 
protects each gem (successful saving throw for half damage). The gems, however, are 
the keys to getting to and going through the hatch above. Anyone wishing to exit the 
room must pass his hand over each gem without touching it. A transport beam then 
magically lifts him up, the hatch opens, and the character finds himself in Area 2. If the 
activator of the gems wishes to leave the pyramid, the transport beam returns him once 
more to the area below the pyramid. There is no other way to leave the pyramid. 

Area 2: Divination 

The gems' magic transports the characters up a long shaft and opens the silver hatch 
into this room, where they are gently deposited. A single blue gem sits in an alcove 
similar to those found in Area 1. Passing one's hand over it takes a character back 
down to Area 1 by the gem's transport beam. Above the alcove, there is strange writing 
on the wall. This script is in foot-tall letters. Nevertheless, it is in the unique tongue 
devised by Rajaat to describe his new magical principle, so a comprehend languages 
or read magic spell is required to read it. It simply says, "Divination," reflecting the 
informative nature of the room and the magic of it. 

This room is the cataloging room. Rajaat kept records of all of the magical items he 
created or gained from various (and sometimes otherworldly) sources. On the eastern 
wall is a stone bookcase filled with ancient tomes regarding magical items, penned by 
the Warbringer. All crumble when touched. Against the south wall, a silver plaque lists 
all of the items kept here. Most are gone now, but a few remain. 

The list reads (in the ancient tongue of the rhulisti): 


Sword of Sharpness Vault 1 

Staff of Power Vault 2 

Rod of Rulership Vault 3 

Ring of Gray Vault 4 

Circlet of Life Vault 5 

Little Death Vault 6 


Furthermore, the magic within the plaque allows anyone touching one of the items on 
the list to know its basic powers. These descriptions are conferred mentally. The first 
three are described in vague terms, but conform to the entries in the DMG. The last 
three are unique items, and have the following descriptions. 

Ring of Gray: This wrought-iron ring allows the wearer to open a portal to the nether 
realms of the Gray, summoning forth a spirit into this world to do its new master's bid 
ding. 

DMs' note: The exact nature of this item is unknown since it is gone from its vault 
and has apparently vanished from Athas. 

Circlet of Life: This coronet allows the wearer to shape living beings, molding them to 
fit his needs. 


112 


DMs' note: This item's exact location is unknown, but it is believed to have passed into 
the empire of the thri-kreen long ago. 

Little Death: This wand allows the user to slay the shaped living creations of the 
ancient halflings and their descendants. 

DMs' note: This wand is the prize sought by Sahl-oren. Little death and the rod of 
rulership are the only items mentioned that are still in the pyramid. A complete listing 
of its capabilities is presented in Area 12. 

The door on the west wall is stone and opens into the room, exposing a short corri 
dor and another stone door. A secret door on the east wall is connected to the book 
case and the whole assemblage pushes open easily once found. 

Area 3: Enchantment/Charm 

This is the site of the ultimate defeat of Sahl-oren's group. It is the home of two ensor- 
celled thri-kreen, trapped here long ago and forced to become guardians after Rajaat 
experimented on them with his new creation. 

The three dead corpses of Sahl-oren's remaining companions still lay on the floor 
with their equipment. The equipment (all, of course, organic) includes a mace, a short 
sword, a warstaff, a suit of hide armor and a half shell, two clingbags, 100 feet of clin- 
grope, a lockpick, and a climber's shield. The living items are all close to starvation. 

When the PCs open the door to the room, the thri-kreen attack. The first has been 
modified with a bizarre and permanent form of stoneskin. This allows the insect to 
ignore the first blow he is dealt in every round. The other has had her arms replaced 
with crystalline prosthetics that magically give her a Strength of 20 (+3 to attack, +8 to 
damage). 

The thri-kreen have become nothing more than automatons, mindlessly serving as 
guardians in this place for untold centuries. They have no need for food or sleep. 

Thri-kreen (2): AC 5; MV 18; hp 39, 41; THACO 13; #AT 5 or 2; Dmg 1d4 
(x4)/1d4+1 or 1d4+1/1d6(gythka); SA bite causes paralysis; SD can dodge missiles 
on a roll of 9 or better on a d20, immune to hold person and charm person; SZ L 
(11' long); ML Fearless (20); Int Average (10); AL N; XP 1,400. 

Note: Small creatures are paralyzed for 2d10 rounds, medium 2d8 rounds, and 
large for 1d8 rounds. 

This stark room has no furnishings, but there is more strange writing on the eastern 
wall (as in Area 2). It reads: "Enchantment/Charm." 

Area 4: Empty Chamber 

At one time this was a guard room where some of Rajaat's charmed halfling guardians 
resided. These guardians are now found in Area 5. The room has old, rotting furnish 
ings including five beds, a low table, two benches and five chests, all made of wood. 
The chests are empty now, and the beds have no mattress or blankets. 

The secret door is behind one of the benches and slides to the left when found. 

Area 5: Necromancy 

The door to this room is locked with a conventionally keyed lock. Once inside, the 
characters see that the walls here are still covered in tattered black drapes and the floor 
with a dirty, stained rug that was once bone-white. Three tall, silver candelabras stand in 
the southern portion of the room, their ancient, black candles still waiting to be burned. 

This room has become the permanent home of yet more mindless guardians created 
by Rajaat's spells. When these charmed halfling warriors fell in combat with a beast 
from the swamp, the Warbringer animated them into wights, although they are as mind 
lessness as zombies. Until the door opens, the undead remain in the northern portion of 
the room. After that point, they attack. They will not go beyond Areas 4 and 5. 

In combat strength, these small undead warriors are no less powerful than a full- 
sized wight, except where noted below. In appearance, they are gaunt, pale-skinned 
halflings dressed in tattered rags with withered, undead (but essentially useless) life 
shaped creations hanging off them. 


113 


Halfling wights (5): AC 5; MV 6; hp 26 each; THACO 15; #AT 1; Dmg 1d4; SA Touch 
drains 1 level; SD Affected only by silver or +1 or better magical weapons, immune to 
sleep, charm, hold and cold-based spells as well as poison and paralysis; SZ S (3' tall); 
ML Elite (14); Int Non (0); AL LE; XP 1,400. 

Rajaat has inscribed the word "Necromancy" on the northern wall. 

Area 6: Refuse 

A small room behind a locked door, this chamber is full of discarded magical items. 
Broken staves, rods, wands, weapons and shields, bent rings, spoiled potions, and 
other ruined miscellaneous enchanted objects can be found here. No amount of regu 
lar searching uncovers anything of value here, but a detect magic spell reveals two 
items with magical power remaining. The first is a necklace of missiles with one 5d6 
missile and two 3d6 missiles thrown here by accident. The second is a slightly bent 
ring of free action whose dweomer has been spoiled and it is now malfunctioning-it 
operates as a ring of clumsiness. 

Area 7: Alteration 

This area is a trap to keep intruders from passing any farther into the pyramid. The trap 
is magical and involves two different alteration spells. 

The room itself appears to be completely empty. An intricate pattern of inlaid colored 
stone tiles decorates the floor. The primary colors of the pattern change at the points on 
the map where dotted lines cross the room. The colors of the tiles from left to right are 
blue, red, and green. The western wall bears Rajaat's inscription: "Alteration." 

The green zone of the room casts a slow spell on anyone touching the floor. In the 
red field, characters are the targets of beams of reddish energy that fire from random 
placements in the wall once per character per round (this trap is not dependent upon 
characters touching the floor, as in the green area, so even flying or jumping heroes are 
subject to attack). Each character must make a saving throw vs. petrification/polymorph 
(Dexterity bonuses apply) to avoid the beams. Those affected by the slow make their 
saving throws at -4. Characters struck by one of these beams are polymorphed into 
random 1 HD animals such as rats, snakes, lizards, and bats. 

The blue tract has no special effects unless a character polymorphed by the green 
area crosses into it. Such characters are automatically restored to their former bodies 
and (if applicable) minds (no saving throw or system shock roll allowed). Crossing back 
into the red section, however, may result in further polymorphing, so characters may 
be trapped in the blue area. 

Area 8: Abjuration 

When characters come down the 30-foot corridor that leads to this room, the doors on 
either side of it automatically open and a statue slides out of each on large bone 
wheels. One statue is made from ebony, the other ivory. Both resemble life size, 
snarling watchdogs (these are large versions of the material component for the repul 
sion spell-a spellcraft proficiency check will reveal this information). 

When the statues show themselves, all characters in the hall must make successful 
saving throws vs. spell or be forced back through Area 6 (and the magical traps there) 
and even back down the stairs into Area 5, as a repulsion spell. This effect lasts only 
one round (after which the dogs return to the little rooms), but attempting to cross the 
hall again triggers the effect again. The only way to pass the guardian canines is to 
make the saving throw, prevent the doors from opening, or find the other way up using 
the secret doors in areas 2 or 4. 

The side rooms are empty other than the dog statues, while the 30-foot square room 
has a half-dozen more graven images. These six statues are not magical, and depict a 
halfling, a human, an elf, a dwarf, a thri-kreen, and a gnome all preparing to cast a 
spell (although some of these races are thoroughly nonmagical). 

The north wall bears Rajaat's inscription: "Abjuration." 

Area 9: Invocation/Evocation 

This room is, of course, another trap, designed to protect the vaults beyond as well as 
above. A large (3-foot diameter) brass sphere hangs from a chain connected to the ceil- 


114 


ing at the center of the chamber. 

Characters who enter this room are the unfortunate recipients of a random evocation 
spell (roll 2d6): 

Random Evocation Table 
2d6 Spell Effect 

1 Lightning bolt 6d6 damage 

2 Cone of cold 10d4+10 damage 

3-7 Magic missile 2 missiles 

8-10 Forcecage lasting 160 rounds 

11 Web lasting 200 rounds 

12 Wall of fire cast at 10th level 

These effects occur soon after a character enters the room. Roll 1 dl0 and add it to the 
character's base movement rate. The result is the number of feet into the room the char 
acter can travel before the spell is cast. Area of effect spells such as cone of cold or wall 
of fire may affect more than one character if they are close together (so determining 
how far into the room the character went is important) within the spell's normal area. 
Rajaat's inscription, "Invocation/Evocation" is on the north wall. 

Area 10: Minor Vault 

This room was used for storage of minor magical items. The walls are lined with stone 
shelves and two long, low tables fill most of the room's center. Cases, flasks, bags, 
sheaths, jars, boxes, and all manner of containers are scattered about the shelves and 
tables, almost all of them empty. A careful search of this room (taking at least 20 
rounds) yields the following: potions of levitation, healing, and treasure finding, a long 
sword +1 (iron), a rod of security (5 charges), and a ring of protection +1. 

If any of the containers in this room are disturbed, an alarm spell is activated that 
sounds throughout the pyramid. Since the place has fallen out of use, however, this 
spell has no actual effect. 

Area 11: Summoning/Conjuration 

This room is empty except for what appears to be a large well at its center. The walls 
have carvings in bas relief depicting all kinds of creatures, each displaying many more 
limbs than it should-obviously twisted by magic. If the player characters enter this 
chamber, a spell of summoning conjures up a four-armed monster that rises out of the 
well and attacks-either one feylaar (30% chance) or two b'rohg (70% chance). 

Feylaar: AC 4; MV 9; hp 45; THAC0 13; #AT 5; Dmg 1d6+1x4/2d4+1; SA -2 to 
foes' surprise roll, if two fists hit, a foe is grabbed and crushed for 2d10 damage; SZ 
L (8' tall); ML Elite (16); Int Very (12); AL NE; XP 2,000. 

Note: Grabbed foes can break free by making a Strength check at -4. 

Player's Option: #AT 3/2; MTHAC0 14; MAC 2 

Psionics Summary: Dis 3/Sci 4/Dev 12; PS 13; PSPs 50; Att: EW, II, MT, PB; Def IF, 
MB, MBk, TW 

Psychometabolism: Sciences-death field, shadow form; Devotions: adrenaline con 
trol, cell adjustment, chameleon power, displacement. 

Psychoportive: Sciences-nil; Devotions: blink, phase. 

Telepathy: Sciences-psionic blast (mindlink), domination (ultrablast); Devotions- 
ego whip (conceal thoughts), id insinuation (false sensory input), inflict pain, invisi 
bility, plant mind, mind thrust (psychic drain). 

B'rohg (2): AC 10; MV 15; hp 32, 40; THAC0 15 (17 with 2nd pair of attacks); #AT 
4; Dmg 1d8+10 (stone clubs); SZ H (15' tall); ML Average (10); Int Low (6); AL N; 

XP 650. 

The conjured creatures are compelled to attack the intruders in this room, pursuing 
them anywhere and fighting to the death if necessary. The feylaar will attempt to use 
psionics to its advantage while the b'rohg simply attacks blindly. 

Worse, every five rounds that there are intruders in this room, another summoning 


115 


occurs (roll again for type). Rajaat's inscription, "Conjuration/Summoning" is on the 
west wall. 

The small room to the south of this area is empty except for a number of white 
candles in iron candleholders arranged on the shelves of each wall. Rajaat used this 
room to teleport (only he had access-all others teleport into Area 1) from outside the 
pyramid. 

Area 12: illusion 

This chamber is the highest in the inverted pyramid. Both approaches to it are stairways 
leading up from the lower levels. Running through the center of this room is a perma 
nent illusion of a wait of fire. Characters see the flames and feel the heat-they even 
take damage if they approach the wall or attempt to pass through it. Like a wait of fire, 
the illusion inflicts 2d4 points of damage on anyone within 10 feet of the wall. Unlike 
a wait of fire, no damage is inflicted at 20 feet, and the heat radiates toward both sides 
of the illusionary wall. On the south wall is Rajaat's inscription, "Illusion," which is a 
helpful clue to those coming into the room from the south, provided they can read it. 

The secret door at the bottom of the southern stair is only concealed from the south. 

It pivots to open. 

Area 13: Vault Room 

This large chamber has a domed ceiling at its center, stretching upward to 40 feet. A 
three-tiered, magical fountain, almost 30 feet high, dominates the room, with 
columned pathways in the east and west. The fountain and the columns are all 
adorned with images of magical creatures-unicorns, naga, lamia, elementals, behold 
ers, dragons, and other creatures, many of them now extinct on Athas. 

To the north, six iron vaults line the wall, each 8-foot high and 3 feet wide. All are 
covered with magical inscriptions to preserve the contents rather than to protect them 
from the outside. The first five stand with their doors hanging open, while the sixth 
remains closed. Its door is locked (the key is long lost), but not trapped. Instead, if any 
of the vaults are touched, the room's guardian, Tethire, a wraith summoned from the 
Gray, attacks the violator. 

Tethire (Wraith, Athasian): AC 2; MV 9; hp 51; THACO 14; #AT 1 or 3/2; Dmg 1d4 
or by weapon; SA can inhabit the bodies of others, animate objects, chill touch 
drains 1 point of Strength per touch; SD +2 or better weapon to hit, magical 
weapons used against it lose 1 magical bonus, immune to sleep, charm, hold, paral 
ysis, and cold spells, poison; takes only Vz damage while inhabiting person or 
object; SW raise dead slays instantly; SZ M (6' tall); ML Champion (16); Int High 
(14); AL NE; XP 2,000. 

Note: Chance that magical weapons lose bonus is 75% if metal, 50% if stone, 25% 
if bone, wood, or other organic material. 

Personality: Intensely loyal, forgiving, sad 

Tethire attempts to inhabit and animate one of the heroes' weapons, using it to attack 
them relentlessly. Rajaat commanded him to guard these vaults forever, but he loathes 
killing-if the heroes beg for mercy or ask for quarter, he gives it to them-as long as 
they leave the vaults and their remaining contents alone. At such time he ceases ani 
mating the weapon and appears to the heroes as the wraith that he is. 

The little death is in the last vault. The wand is a 1-foot long ebony shaft capped with 
silver tips. When activated, it fires a black beam up to 50 feet from its tip which auto 
matically slays any life-shaped creation regardless of size, even engines. At a cost of 3 
charges, it can vent a cone 50 feet long and 5 feet wide at its terminus that slays life 
shaped creations, but the targets get a chance to make a saving throw vs. wands. It has 
43 charges. 

If the DM desires further adventures in the swamp dealing with Rajaat's sorcery, the 
heroes can make Intelligence checks to notice that there is an inscription hidden on 
the carvings on the central fountain. This inscription gives directions to another citadel 
of Rajaat's-one where he actually developed some primary sorcerous knowledge. This 
place is filled with monstrous creations and random magical energies and effects. The 
monsters should be much more powerful than those found here, including horrors like 


116 


nightmare beasts, so-uts, elemental creatures, and imprisoned fiends from the Lower 
Planes. The farther they push into the swamp, and the more closely the PCs get to 
Rajaat's true citadel (where most of his actual magical research and experimentation 
took place), the more horrible the monsters become and the more the bizarre and 
potent magical effects and alterations increase. Rajaat's true citadel should be a place 
so twisted by magic that all natural forces and laws break down-twisted and changed 
by aeons of out-of-control defiler sorcery. 

Ending the Adventure 

If the player characters recover little death, their agreement binds them to take it to 
Cohg-agon. If they accomplish this task, they should receive a reward of 5,000 experi 
ence points to divide equally among themselves. Cohg-agon gives the magical item to 
her life-shaper masters (for a huge fee) and they will most likely attempt to destroy it. 
The merchant demands that the heroes swear not to tell anyone else about the find 
(since her business is information, and that is why she paid them so well). 

If the heroes rescue Sahl-oren, however, he does everything he can to stop them from 
turning little death over to Cohg-agon. He claims that he has the rights to it since he dis 
covered its existence. He may even attempt to steal it from the heroes if he must. In any 
event, the characters gain 2,000 experience points to split for rescuing the adventurer. 

Should the characters choose to keep the device for themselves, they make enemies 
of both Sahl-oren and Cohg-agon. If the life-shapers in any way discover the nature 
and existence of little death they will do whatever is necessary to obtain or destroy the 
wand, which they know is the bane of all they hold sacred. 

Jagged Cliffs Adventure Hooks 

The following are brief ideas for other adventures on dealing with the halflings and the 
Jagged Cliffs region. 

First Contact 

This adventure can be played two ways: as standard Dark Sun characters coming upon 
the windriders for the first time, or as rhul-thaun adventurers meeting outsiders as they 
come through the newly created rift. In either event, the adventure involves a great 
deal of diplomacy and tact and (hopefully) not a lot of combat. 

Rhul-thaun PCs meeting outsiders for the first time need to role-play ignorance of these 
large intruders' ways. Special attention on their part would be given to feral halflings. 

An encounter may precede any outsiders' first meeting with rhul-thaun by one of the 
pyreen that watch over and protect the halflings from outside influences. The pyreen 
attempt to judge the characters and their motivations to determine whether they can 
proceed to the Jagged Cliffs. 

Secret Infiltration 

This is a variation on a first contact meeting. In this adventure, the heroes (outsiders 
from the Tyr region) have been told of the existence of the rhul-thaun, and the fact that 
the halflings have a great deal of knowledge regarding the thri-kreen. A minor ruler 
concerned about a potential invasion from the mantis warriors hires the heroes to infil 
trate the rhul-thaun and learn what information they can (and possibly even go into the 
western lands themselves). 

Sneaking into rhul-thaun villages requires disguise, magic, or psionics to make the 
heroes appear to be halflings. The characters are required to learn a great deal about 
the rhul-thaun if they are to succeed, and possibly just to survive. 

Dangers include discovery and apprehension by the vher-elus, the life-shapers, or 
even one of the criminal leagues. The latter two groups would be as interested to hear 
about the outside world as the heroes are about the halflings and the thri-kreen. 


117 


Life Shaper Rebellion 

The shapers of Glerran maintain an independence from the rest of the shaper organiza 
tion, disapproving of that group's motivations and methods. In this adventure, the life- 
shapers based in Thamasku send enforcers (including some of the dreaded ghav-nosh) 
to apprehend Dehm-acov (the leader of the Glerran Sanctuary) and restore control. The 
beleaguered rebel shapers look to any help they can get, including the PCs. 

To help the Glerran shapers, characters must contend with life shaper assassins, a 
veritable siege of the Sanctuary there, and longer lasting repercussions no matter what 
the results. The life-shapers are an unforgiving enemy, but at the same time, the Glerran 
shapers are valuable allies. 

Alternatively, the life-shapers can convince the heroes outside Glerran that the rebels 
there are evil. In such a case, the player characters are among those trying to storm the 
rogue shaper sanctuary and apprehend those inside. 

Esperhunt 

A small group of wild talent halflings defiantly begins to use and refine their psionic 
powers. They believe that ingesting crushed esperweed can enhance their powers. They 
hire the heroes to hunt along the Jagged Cliffs for these rare plants. The PCs encounter 
any number of horrible monsters in their search, such as Athasian sloths, rocs, and 
more. The vertical forest in which the player characters eventually do find esperweed is 
dominated by four powerful gaj, who have eight rhul-thaun climbers whom they have 
snared under their psionic control. The heroes have to deal with these 3rd- to 10-level 
rogues and multiclassed fighter/rogues (preferably rescuing them, not simply killing 
them) as well as the gaj. Experience point awards should be given out for the amount of 
esperweed delivered and the number of dominated climbers they manage to free. 

This adventure is particularly appropriate for a party of player characters who are 
windriders or climbers looking for employment. Many interesting adventures can be 
developed for such a group-searching for rare herbs, lost climbers, rogue monsters, 
wanted criminals, and all manner of other quarry that could be found amid the nooks, 
crags, and crannies of the cliffs. 

Return of the High Lord 

A halfling shows up in Reg-tol claiming to be the High Lord Rhan Thes-onel, returning 
as promised after so many millennia. The heroes are hired to guard him, as it turns out 
a number of groups want to see him dead-including the Chahn. Others hate him, 
claiming he is a fraud, a threat to the status quo, or a challenge to the existing order. 
The halfling in question expects to be taken to Thamasku to speak before the conclave. 

On the way there, Chahn assassins-both warriors and rogues-attack the party and 
their charge. Other rogues (backed by some of the less ethical har-etuil) attempt to stop 
the heroes from making it to their destination-they don't want to see things change. 
Priests of a rogue water sect want to capture "Rhan" to learn whether he is telling the 
truth (and control him if he is the true High Lord). 

As they fight to protect him, the player characters are confronted with questions of 
their own. Is he the real High Lord Rhan? Is he an impostor? Is he undead? 

Monster? 

A monstrosity emerges from the swamp and climbs to the village of Yihn-tol. It resem 
bles a gorgon, but it has been altered by the magic of the swamp so that it has four 
arms with five-fingered hands instead of a front pair of hooves-it also sports a vast 
intellect. 

It comes to the village and immediately the halflings around it begin to turn to stone 
because of the effects of the beast's breath. The village calls the heroes to come to the 
rescue and confront the horror, only to find that it regrets that the halflings were petri 
fied and wishes to harm no one. 

If the heroes give it a chance to speak, they find that the creature not only has gained 
intelligence, but has developed a conscience and a code of ethics. Its alignment is now 


118 


neutral good, and even tends toward lawful good. Unfortunately, it refuses to go back 
down into the swamp. It no longer wants to live amid the foul sorcery and dangerous 
monsters, the monstrosity wants to live among the rhul-thaun. 

Now the heroes must champion either its cause and try to integrate the monster (and 
its dangerous breath) into the village, or they must convince the good creature to return 
to the swamp or drive it back. 

Lost Caverns of the Rhulisti 

Rumors abound of strange caverns with perfectly round openings and perfectly ridged, 
round walls, not unlike the interior of intestinal tubes, which reach far back into the 
darkness of the cliffs. These strange caves are rare, but reports place them throughout the 
Jagged Cliffs. The rhul-thaun universally avoid them and there is a taboo regarding them. 

The caves are left over constructions of the rhulisti. The tubes are caves grown rather 
than dug, deep into the sides of the cliffs. They actually crisscross much of this district of 
Athas, stretching back all the way under the Tyr region from the Jagged Cliffs. 

Those brave explorers willing to enter the forbidden caves find relics not only left over 
from rhulisti life-shaping (many still alive and functioning). However, they encounter 
psionic and magical items left over from previous ages of Athas when people were still 
aware of these tunnels and used them. Huge organic caverns can be found deep under 
the surface, housing great wonders-and guarded by horrible life-shaped monsters, 
psionic, and magical traps. Certain areas are filled with legions of undead, unliving rem 
nants of the Green Age and the Age of Magic. 

Death by Fire 

If the rhul-thaun were to put together a list of their primary fears, one of the top 10 
would most likely be the rise of the evil worshipers of fire. Most, however, probably 
don't realize that this is a fear most real. 

In the village of Sahr-tosh, an evil priest named Rag-ovoth (ham/P12(fire)/CE) worships 
the forbidden element and seeks to wreak vengeance on what he feels is a society that 
has rejected the center of his life for far too long. He and his fellow priests and priest 
esses of flame (six in all, ranging from 4th to 8th level), as well as a number of evil fol 
lowers (warriors and rogues of 3rd to 10th level), begin a reign of terror in the small 
village, burning living buildings of the community, killing halflings who get in their way, 
and destroying all life-shaped creations they encounter (except those they can use), set 
ting them ablaze. 

In a sudden surprise attack, they overwhelm the vher-elus of the community, and set 
themselves up as the village's rulers. At first, those who wish to see the village indepen 
dent of the control of the life-shapers assist the marauders, but when they see the evil 
and chaotic nature of their allies they soon regret what they have done. 

The worshipers of fire hold the har-etuil, the city administrator, and a number of life- 
shapers hostage. The entire village is awash in fire, confusion, violence, and death. Even 
the infamous ghav-nosh, the assassins of the shapers, are trapped within the village's 
now burning sanctuary, cut off from the village and their masters in Thamasku. Can the 
heroes restore order in this chaos? Will the pterrans take advantage of this situation and 
use the village's weakness to attack? 

Perhaps the player characters are hired by the shapers themselves to do what they can 
for the city and to deliver orders to the cornered ghav-nosh. Antishaper rebels, like 
Sahn-abish and Wem-osun, may wish to help the heroes save the city, but not just to 
give it back to the shapers. Caught in a three-way or four-way battle, the heroes must 
choose sides and choose quickly. 


IIP 


Reggelid 

Climate/Terrain: 
Frequency: 
Organization: 
Activity Cycle: 
Diet: 

Intelligence: 

Treasure: 

Alignment: 

No. Appearing: 
Armor Class: 
Movement: 

Hit Dice: 

ThacO: 

No. of Attacks: 
Damage/Attack: 
Special Attacks: 
Special Defenses: 
Magic Resistance: 
Size: 

Morale: 

XP Value: 


Lower Jagged Cliffs, Swamp 

Very Rare 

Bands 

Nocturnal 

Omnivore 

Genius (17-18) 

V 

Neutral evil 
1 d8+2 
7 

12 

3 (Varies) 

19 

As level and class 
1d6 (weapon) 

Spells 

Nil 

Nil 

M (7' tall) 

Steady (11-12) 

175 


Reggelids are tall and angular, looking something like ugly elves with flat faces and an 
extra finger on each hand. Their origin is unknown, even to them, but they seem uncon 
cerned about preserving their past or their heritage. Their only passion is magic. 
Combat: Each reggelid is a defiler wizard or a fighter/wizard of at least 3rd level. Those 



120 



of higher levels have correspondingly higher Hit Dice. They are born with magical abili 
ties and strive to expand and increase them throughout their lives. They normally use 
staves in melee combat, although using magical items-even weapons of all sorts is also 
very common for reggelids. 

When reggelids use magical items, there is a 75% chance that they can use their 
innate abilities and acquired knowledge to use the items even more effectively than it 
was designed to be used. If successful, the devices' power is increased by 25%. This 
means that a wand of fire that can fire 6d6 fireballs in the hands of a reggelid can 
potentially inflict 2d6 (1.5 rounded up) more damage. 

In combat, reggelids respect only wizards (and to a lesser degree, other characters 
with spells or inherent magical abilities) and focus their attacks upon them. When in 
battle, the reggelids use their spells in conjunction to complement each other. Often, 
while one is throwing an offensive spell, another is casting a defensive spell that aids 
both. 

Habitat/Society: Reggelid communities comprise little more than wooden lean-tos or 
shallow caves. They remain uninterested in any sort of luxury or creature comfort, pro 
viding for themselves only enough to survive and continue their magic studies. Lore is 
kept on stone tablets guarded by the young males of the community. 

Magical power and knowledge determine leadership among the reggelids. This being 
the case, in any band of reggelids, a defiler wizard leader is encountered whose level is 
at least equal to the number of individuals in the group. Reggelid communities are com 
monly lead by individuals of 15th to 20th level, regardless of size. 

Ten percent of any reggelid group are of a level of 4-9 (1d6+3), 30% of the band are 
fighter/wizards levels 3-8 (1d6+2) wielding broadswords rather than staves and using 
magical items tailored for fighters. 

Like the bvanen, the reggelids keep to areas on the lower portions of the cliffs. They 
seem to search forever for Rajaat's magical legacies within the swamp. 

Ecology: Some halfling scholars believe the reggelids to be the result of some of Rajaat's 
strange activities or victims of the curse (they do not understand magic, but what they 
are postulating is the idea that they are somehow some leftover creations of Rajaat's-a 
very plausible idea). 

There is never any conflict among the reggelids themselves. They instantly recognize 
members of their race that are more magically adept or skilled than themselves and 
defer to them automatically. Their lust for all things magical is not to promote them 
selves within their own society but to advance themselves on a general level. It is the 
means that interest them more than the end. 

Though they bear only ill will for all other races, reggelids despise the halflings of the 
Jagged Cliffs and their life-shaped creations most of all. The reggelids developed the fol 
lowing spell specifically to combat the halflings and destroy their shaped tools and 
weapons. 

Organic Disruption (Necromancy/Alteration) 

3rd-level Wizard Spell 
Range: 50 yards 
Components: V, S, M 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Casting Time: 3 
Area of Effect: 10-foot radius 
Saving Throw: Reduces Dmg by 

This spell allows the caster to strike at life-shaped creations and those who use them. 
When the spell is cast, a 10-foot radius sphere of dark energy appears around the 
desired location and then quickly fades. All life-shaped creations within the sphere must 
make a saving throw vs. death magic or be slain instantly. Nonliving organic material 
such as wood and leather must make a saving throw vs. acid or crumble to dust. All 
other organic targets are dealt 2d6 damage, although a saving throw vs. spell reduces 
this by half. 

The material component for this spell is a drop of mild acid. 


121 


Bvanen 


Climate/Terrain 
Frequency: 
Organization: 
Activity Cycle: 
Diet: 

Intelligence: 

Treasure: 

Alignment: 

No. Appearing: 
Armor Class: 
Movement: 

Hit Dice: 

ThacO: 

No. of Attacks: 
Damage/Attack: 
Special Attacks: 
Special Defenses: 
Magic Resistance: 
Size: 

Morale: 

XP Value: 


Base of the Jagged Cliffs 

Very Rare 

Tribal 

Nocturnal 

Omnivore 

Very (11-12) 

Nil 

Neutral Good 

3d4 

4 

6, Sw 12 
3+1 
17 
3 

1d3/1d3/1d4+1 
Secreted ooze 
See below 
Nil 

M (5' tall) 

Average (8-10) 

420 



111 


PSIONICS SUMMARY: Dis 2/Sci 3/Dev 10; PS 10; PSPs 40 
Att: EW, II, MT; Def: MB, MBk, TS 
PLAYER'S OPTION: #AT 1; MTHACO 16; MAC 4 
Psychometabolism: Sciences-animal affinity; 

Devotions-displacement, flesh armor, immovability 

Telepathy: Sciences-domination, mindlink; Devotions-attraction, contact (send 
thoughts), ego whip (sight link), id insinuation (inflict pain), mind thrust (synaptic static), 
phobia amplification 

Bvanen are a race of intelligent, benevolent amphibians that dwell in the swamp at the 
base of the Jagged Cliffs. Their hesitant, distrustful nature often forces them into conflicts 
they would otherwise choose to avoid. 

Combat: These amphibians use a claw/claw/bite routine (never weapons), but are not 
strong fighters. They do have a special attack power, however, which they use to par 
tially immobilize their foes. Every bvanen secretes a sticky, quick-hardening ooze 
through pores on its skin. This hardened ooze provides not only a protective shell 
around the bvanen, but a weapon that can be used to stick to foes on a successful claw 
attack roll instead of inflicting damage. On the round after a blow has landed, the foe 
cannot use the struck body part (roll 1d8: 1-head; 2-3, right arm; 4-5, left arm; 6-8, 
either leg) until a bend bars roll is made (either by the character or a companion). A hit 
to the head indicates that the foe suffocates as if drowning. A group of bvanen can 
quickly completely incapacitate an enemy when working in conjunction. 

This secretion has one other use. It seals over the bvanen's wounds as soon as they are 
inflicted. Bvanen are therefore immune to the effects of swords of wounding and similar 
magical weapons that cause bleeding. Further, the ooze and its healing abilities effec 
tively reduce all damage taken by 1 point. 

Approximately 1 in 6 bvanen possesses the listed psionic powers. 

Habitat/Society: The bvanen live in partially submerged caves at the base of the Jagged 
Cliffs and in temporary camps throughout the dismal swamp. They use their hardened 
secretions to build nests out of wood and plants. Their society is divided up into two 
groups: caretakers and hunter/warriors. Caretakers see to the needs of the tribe and the 
tribe's domesticated animals. Every bvanen camp or village has domesticated animals- 
giant fish, giant frogs, aquatic inix, giant insects, and others. They are used for transport, 
food, and sometimes as guardians. 

The bvanen have their own language, and use a series of scars on their flesh to indi 
cate rank and position within society. The bvanen have a strict hierarchy, each individ 
ual has a specific place within the social structure. The scar symbols showrank, the 
scars becoming more intricate as one raises in the social order. 

Although they are generally a kind and gentle race, the bvanen are reclusive and sus 
picious of strangers, often choosing to fight defensively rather than risk letting their 
guard down and trusting a potential enemy. 

Ecology: It is unknown whether the Bvanen are natural creatures or bred from the sorcer- 
ous soup of the swamp, They have never been encountered anywhere other than the 
Jagged Cliffs. They hunt and raise animals for food, but they will never knowingly eat an 
intelligent creature. 


123 


Life-Shaped Creations: Guardians 


Climbdog Darkstrike 

Climate/Terrain: - 

Frequency: - 

Organization: - 

Activity Cycle: - 

Diet: - 


Intelligence: 

Semi (2-4) 

Non (0) 

Treasure: 

Alignment: 

N/A 

N/A 



No. Appearing: 

4 

5 

Armor Class: 

Movement: 

6 

Nil 

Hit Dice: 

2 

2 

THACO: 

19 

19 

No. of Attacks: 

3 

1 

Damage/Attack: 

1d3/1d3/1d4 

1d8 

Special Attacks: 

Nil 

Poison 

Special Defenses: 
Magic Resistance: 

Nil 

Nil 

S (3' long) 

S (4' long) 

Size: 

Morale: 

65 

65 

XP Value: 


Protector 

lo niiffo 

Shieldbug 

Watcher 



All 


Animal (1) 
N/A 

Animal (1) 
N/A 

Non(0) 

N/A 


6 

8 

3 

17 

3 

1d4/1d4/1d6 

Nil 

Nil 

Mil 

6 

24 

1 hp 

Nil 

Special 

Special 

Special 

Special 

10 

Nil 

1 

Nil 

None 

None 

Nil 

Nil 

M (5' long) 

T (6" long) 

S (3 1 long) 

opUUId.1 

120 

7 

35 



124 






















These life-shaped creations are organic automatons. Some have a modicum of indepen 
dent intelligence, but all mindlessly obey the commands of their masters. They gain 
nourishment from cam-rahn rather than food and do not need the attention and care of 
real animals. 

Climbdog: These canine beasts have wide, grasping paws and extremely flexible legs, 
allowing them to climb even sheer slopes. They accompany halfling climbers, giving them 
protection and aiding them with their keen sense of smell, hearing, and sight. These senses 
are all at least twice as good as the average halfling's. In times of danger or combat, they 
sacrifice themselves without hesitation to protect their masters. Climbdogs attack with two 
claws and a bite, suffering no penalties if attacking while climbing but being limited to only 
one claw attack instead of two. 

Darkstrike: These guardian creatures look like snakes with large bulbous nodules at the 
end of their serpentine bodies. The nodules secrete an adhesive like clingpads so that 
they can be attached to walls, doors, or other surfaces. Their dark flesh allows them to 
blend into the shadows, becoming 90% invisible in dim light. Usually, they are placed 
in nooks, alcoves, or around corners so that they can hide, waiting to pounce. Foes sur 
prise rolls are modified by a -2 when first attacked by a darkstrike. When a preselected 
condition is met, the serpentine creature strikes at any available target with its fearsome 
bite. Poison nodules often accompany darkstrikes so that their bite carries with it a viru 
lent poison. A darkstrike can sense motion even in the dark (sonar, similar to bats), so 
conditions are usually based on movement. Conditions include the detection of move 
ment based on the amount of light (day or night), the number of figures passing by the 
creatures at the same time, the size, race, or species of figures passing, or similar crite 
ria. 

Protector: These feline creatures have the grace and power of large cats. They can be 
instructed to recognize intruders and attack them. The protectors flawlessly discriminate 
between those they are to protect and those who present an obvious threat. They attack 
with two huge claws and a tooth-filled maw that rend and rip its foes. Unlike predatory 
cats, however, these life-shaped creations do not eat their kills or attack out of hunger. 
Shieldbug: These wasp-like creations are 6 inches long and can fly up to 30 miles an 
hour. Singly they are virtually useless, but in a swarm they can be a windrider's best 
defense. A swarm comprises 50 to 100 of these creatures. They accompany windriders 
on their mounts (usually resting on the windriding mount until needed), flying up and 
around their master, screening out intruders and repulsing attacks. When a ranged 
attack (magical or missile) is determined to hit the windrider or his mount, there is a 
percentage chance equal to the number of shieldbugs in the swarm that the attack 
strikes one of the insects instead of the windrider. The attack automatically kills the bug, 
reducing the number in the swarm by one. A shieldswarm cannot protect against area of 
effect attacks, although all of the bugs within the area of effect are slain. Against melee 
attacks, windriders surrounded by swarms have their AC improved by 2 places due to 
the swarm obscuring them and fouling the enemy's attacks. 

Offensively, the swarm can be commanded to attack and harass the rider's foes in battle. 
Every round within the hostile swarm, a character takes 1 point of damage and must make 
a saving throw vs. paralyzation to be able to take an action other than defending against 
the bugs. 

Watcher: A watcher is a reptilian/plant creature with large, bulbous eyes possessed of 
virtually 360 degree vision. If a watcher observes a specific sight preselected by its mas 
ter, it lets out a loud keening sound. It makes no attacks and never moves. 


125 


Life-Shaped Creations: Transport 


Ber-ethern Yihn-eflan Gon-evauth Dhev-sahr 

CLIMATE/TERRAIN: -Jagged Cliffs - 


FREQUENCY: 


ORGANIZATION: 


ACTIVITY CYCLE: 


DIET: 


INTELLIGENCE: 


TREASURE: 


ALIGNMENT: 


NO. APPEARING: 


ARMOR CLASS: 

4 

MOVEMENT: 

FI45(A) 

HIT DICE: 

4 

THACO: 

17 

NO. OF ATTACKS: 

1 

DAMAGE/ATTACK: 

1d4 

SPECIAL ATTACKS: 


SPECIAL DEFENSES: 


MAGIC RESISTANCE: 


SIZE: 

M (6' long) 

MORALE: 


XP VALUE: 

120 


Very Rare 
None 

Any 

Special 
Animal (1) 


N/A 

Neutral 

Varies 


5 

10 

7 

FI32(C) 

FI24(B) 

18 

6 

9 

4 

15 

11 

17 

2 

Nil 

1 

d4+1/1d4+1 

Nil 

1d6 


None - 

None - 

Nil - 

L (8' long) H (20' long) L (7' long) 

Special - 

270 975 120 


These life-shaped creations are organic automatons. Some have a modicum of indepen 
dent intelligence, but all mindlessly obey the commands of their masters. They gain 
nourishment from cam-rahn rather than food, and do not need the attention and care of 
real animals. 

Ber-ethern: Breeze sprites (which is what ber-ethern means) are the smallest of the win 
driding mounts. They are insectoid flyers with room to carry one halfling rider and 25 
pounds of cargo. They can fly up to 75 miles per hour fully loaded. Their long, thin 
wings are twice their body length, allowing them to fly with not only great speed but 
superb control. Ber-ethern can hover, pivot, and move straight up and down. Designed 
expressly for rapid, controlled movement, ber-ethern can move with speed and grace 
unequaled in nature, Their attack is with a small, poisonless stinger. 



126 





























Windriders choose this mount for quick trips or for operating in situations where 
maneuverability is essential. They can fly through narrow crevices and hover next to the 
cliff face, allowing a rider to harvest plants from a vertical forest. 

Yihn-eflan: Yihn-eflan are windriding mounts whose name means gust climber. Larger 
than breeze sprites but smaller than soar whales, the yihn-eflan is an avian creature with 
huge, oversized wings. Their bodies are covered with feathers, and their heads have 
hawk-like beaks. Their only method of attack, however, is to rake foes with their large 
talons. One to three riders can rest safely on its back or 200 pounds of cargo and a 
single rider can be carried. Fully loaded, a gust climber can reach speeds up to 50 miles 
per hour. 

This is the medium windriding mount, still very fast but able to carry more weight 
than a ber-ethern. These are chosen mounts of windriders who know they are going into 
battle, for yihn-eflan dives upon foes with a terrible ferocity and rake with their talons 
besides its rider's attack. 

Con-evauth: This windrider mount is also called a soar whale, and sometimes (usually 
by outsiders who see them from afar) an airship. Con-evauth are huge, balloon shapes, 
able to keep themselves aloft in the winds of the cliffs by filling their large inner cavities 
with hot, moist air. Windriders ride either atop the floating beasts or in gondolas 
attached beneath the beasts that can carry up to eight halflings or one windrider and 
one ton of cargo. Fully loaded, a soar whale moves at a top speed of 30 miles per hour. 
It has no means of attack or even self-defense, and if it takes more than 25% of its hit 
points, it must descend-its air sack has been punctured. 

This is the most common windriding mount, chosen when speed can be sacrificed to 
move great amounts of cargo or many passengers. Additionally, for extremely large and 
heavy loads, several soar whales can be hooked together and flown in teams. Due to 
their slow, gentle movements, they are good for vertical forest harvesting, and their 
undercarriages provide excellent steady platforms for hunters with spinethrowers and 
lightning generators. 

Dhev-sahr: The dhev-sahr is the only land-based mount made by the rhul-thaun life- 
shapers. Their mammalian, hair-covered bodies are round, their heads resemble those of 
the camels. The creatures' four stilt-like legs allow them to move very quickly at what 
appears to be an awkward gallop. Despite appearances, however, dhev-sahr are grace 
ful and steady. Two halflings can ride comfortably on top. 



127 


A TREASURY OF RPG INFO 



A'/.Fh'lfffJfle (tm) Hj-U K.H.1.C same 5- m 

The rn^ciJe Tiai^iJire 
far AOS-D* End D 40 k uarw playui'J- ieadB you in 
t"( limnt (si ll-c- gar*rg iinvsw 


Tha iaa"i- untsa idc -playing 
world alt's yani-^j AflviCS. 
ntfet/s ¦rtH>nsiefS'. cgrtwns, 
ardirGosu'cs ro: iaund 
arysfl^iarrt nisi?' 


If you want the latest 
info on all the 4 
hot new AD&D 
gaming Jm^j 

products ... if ffil 
you want H 

information 
that w ill B - 

A H Al 

make your 
world the 
best it can 

foe *." and if " W f 
you want it at * 
the best price around 


O 1 1 ¥> ^ TT T ~1 F 1 V Fill out subscription 

^5 UL n xv X ii r, 1 f ° rm and mai1 toda v 


DR AGO Nr Magazine 

Subscription iypo. 

3 Mew ? Tm-£-.-.¦ a I ifsnr-riMS naiing labell 

AmrsunC ui pnypIflrTl (awd U S- (i*ndfl onlyl 
to ujS. vfcbvto TjCi'da MidKK 

3 I year(12 ie^^ki far 13Q W 112 tauisiS3£M 

3 1 ¦/*&> {M uiuui to 557OD 3 a yuan iZt iswnl lor sen on 
3 a yMia <;*¦ saum| kF tn* eC O 3- y*(H* |M iuuu| to M5.0C 
| Q3T 'toil fcMfl hocninM I 

To ltin L n aAsjGU 

I i >;ia MIM4I, tv au-Uttf nut, krsssc-a 
3 1 >atr (12 &si)Ki. tv toxvl, far jj? eg 

DUNGEON* Adventures 

aubtoriptlwi type: 

T Mesn n ftoiniwa'^cntlceK nalifijj laM) 

Amount Of P#ym*nl (wnU U.S. runds, anlfl 
Tn U S h^hki "c Ja - a5cr<i:r 

?'1 sfler|(iii* f w)Fi>i , J13.Ki "I 1 -,-tjr it sajcs-Vci 52^.0? 

~l 1 y*j* (12 issjos,;i far S3S 03 32 ywn (12 toiwFKiVi S+S00 
3 3yearsi'IS<Hwe"ifar1)0 33y*M |14Kirns)farS&60D 

ij "3pT sjif nw t = f;h*is= Tic prra . 

TO iJTiijr HUIDST 

I I v<mi it uiiUil tv ssrvk* mill lb' H53 

3 I ywr C<J aiutfil. tv A* t$2-M 

¦ •nH"' 1 d"i=iJiliiflB(tm)hi(m*"i:j ra 1 ! "c C>£M TSP in Aj Rgnn Humid 


Check the appropriate boxes under the 
publication(s) to which you are subscribing. Then 
mail this form with payments to: TSR, Inc.-, P-O. 
Box 5695, Boston. MA 02206 [AH payments 
must be in U.S, funds,) 

4?hMM frfffl efeutyi 

Name_ 

Address___ 

City___State/Prov,__ 

Country Z ip/Postal Coda_ 

Method of payment: 

"I 1 Chack 3 Muney enter ? MasterCard 3 Visa 

C redit card #___ 

Expiration date,_MG bank #_ 

Signature__Date_ 

Vgyr l"*l iSifuS ihiJd Mind 'Mlt"n 6 ID 'll WM*S III ¦t'C -. S "nS ChiSiIh 

A I pn= Hi H-K m ClWflE- Vk'T'Oir H73C4 

























- •- 


• *5T' • 









































































% 














































I 



. . u 


TvfJ, 


' 


£ 

- 

7 

'll 


i i 

- 

a 3" 




3] 


£ 


5' 


w- 













































Windriders of the Jagged Cliffs details the lives of the rhul-thaun-the 
descendants of the rhulisti and the keepers of ancient knowledge who 
practice the most unusual and arcane art under the crimson sun: the 


-a - 

"I : .* 7 ' 


shaping of life itself 


Ihl. 

H>S Slii-rirJ.vt S.irjn 
¦ .11.1 ¦ 

tin *ifir 

isi 


This 128-page accessory for players and Dungeon Masters alike is 
the first in the "Wanderer's Chronicle" series that explores new 
areas of Athas. It features: 

• Details of the Jagged Cliffs region, the rugged land that lies 
between Tyr and the Kreen Empire. 


TitTlM 

Jilt rinjr.;Ii i ,.! 

¦ I firm Muffin 
i jnlir-djj- C II : 11 
1 -pikd Kingdom 


>V ¦ ¦' >ii Yi 


Su|^ Ki'iail 

u,v sii.w 

f AS 


¦ 


tic-: 





Living tools left from Athas's dim past, including organic 
weapons, armor, and flying vehicles. 


Secrets of the swamp at the base of the Cliffs, and its 
link to all magic within the world of Athas. 


Details for creating these unique halfling characters, 


A complete adventure for existing PCs 
or newly created rhul-tan characters. 




X Dihi -a- ji|i< Sim 
,irr rfiii 1 . l m!'ri.ni \ tMnril li> isy. Inn. 

TV TSIi hlpi i| lr[HlV"nnrfc nwnriS In l -K. Inc. 

1 r^i'S" 1 SR. Iftf. All HijliS t"i'rsi/li, MkI*' m ihf ll.W 




L-£- l ?Ln"fi9p;-ij Has] 




































